AbstractAims and objectivesTo examine the effects of family functioning and resilience on self‐management and glycaemic control among youth with type 1 diabetes and to determine whether resilience mediates the effects of family functioning on self‐management and glycaemic control.BackgroundPoor self‐management and glycaemic control are common in youth with type 1 diabetes. Family functioning and resilience are known to be important psychosocial factors that contribute to individual health and development. However, no studies have explored the effects of family functioning and resilience on self‐management and glycaemic control among youths with type 1 diabetes in mainland China.DesignThis study was conducted using a survey with a convenience sample following the STROBE guidelines.MethodsA total of 204 Chinese youth who had been diagnosed with type 1 diabetes for at least 6 months were recruited. Family functioning, resilience, self‐management and diabetes distress were measured using self‐reports and standard measurement tools. Glycaemic control was assessed by glycated haemoglobin (HbA1C) levels. A structural equation model was used to test the hypothesised model.ResultsThe final model accounted for 52.1% and 19.5% of the total variance of self‐management and HbA1C level, respectively. Resilience had a direct effect on self‐management and an indirect effect on control of HbA1C. Family functioning had an indirect effect on both self‐management and control of HbA1C through resilience. The model remained invariant across the mild‐distress and severe‐distress groups.ConclusionIn Chinese youth with type 1 diabetes, resilience positively affected self‐management and ultimately optimised glycaemic control, even in the presence of diabetes distress. Family functioning positively affected self‐management and glycaemic control by promoting resilience.Relevance to clinical practiceThis study found that family functioning and resilience had positive effects on self‐management and glycaemic control in youth. This study confirms the importance of incorporating resilience assessments and family‐based resilience interventions into clinical nursing practice with youth with type 1 diabetes.