
Introduction:
The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of a resilience curriculum on stress levels, resilience, and protective factors, among physical therapist (PT) students during academic stress. Physical therapist students experience high levels of psychological stress during their education. Individuals with greater resilience are better equipped to handle stress. There is a lack of research examining the effect of resilience interventions in PT students. All students enrolled in an entry-level Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) program in Indianapolis, IN were eligible. Forty-three students volunteered to participate and all contributed preintervention and postintervention data for the study.


Methods:
Participants were randomly assigned to receive a resilience curriculum (n = 22) or to a wait-list control group (n = 21), with the researcher blinded to the assignment. An 8-hour resilience curriculum was delivered in 4 consecutive, 2-hour weekly sessions to the intervention group. Both the intervention and the control groups completed baseline and follow-up assessments. The control group was offered a 2-hour condensed version of the curriculum after postintervention assessments. Outcomes measured included stress, resilience, coping flexibility, optimism, emotions, social support, and illness.


Results:
There were significantly greater increases in resilience (P = .03) and positive emotions (P = .02) in the intervention group compared to the control group. There were no significant differences in stress, coping flexibility, negative emotions, optimism, social support, or illness symptoms. Less perceived stress, greater coping flexibility, and higher positive mood scores predicted greater baseline resilience, accounting for 56% of the variance.


Discussion and Conclusion:
This preliminary study demonstrates that a resilience curriculum delivered to DPT students increases resilience and positive emotions. Providing DPT students with tools to improve psychological resilience may better prepare them to meet the demands inherent in entry-level DPT educational programs.
