AbstractCalifornia is severely exposed to drought and damage due to the climate change and drought belt, which has a major impact on agriculture. So, after the drought crisis, there are various reactions from farmers. The extent of the damage caused by the socioeconomic, environment and the extent of the resistance of farmers to this crisis is manifested in a variety of ways. Recognizing the population’s resilience and the involved human groups is a tool for preventing a catastrophe-based increase in life-threatening areas in high-risk areas. Sometimes the inability to manage this phenomenon (especially under the climate change) leads to farmers’ desertification and agricultural land release, which itself indicates a low level of resilience and resilience to the crisis. The recent drought under the climate change condition in California and the severity of the damage sustained by farmers continue to be vulnerable. The present study seeks to prioritize and prioritize resilience of farmers to the crisis under the climate change. This study simulated drought condition with using PDSI value for current and future time period. In order to calculate PDSI values, the climatic parameters extracted from CMIP5 models and downscaled under the scenario of RCP 8.5. Also in order to understand the resilience of the agriculture activities under the climate change, this study was performed using statistical tests and data from the questionnaire completed in the statistical population of 320 farmers in the Tulare region in California. The findings of the research by t test showed that the average level of effective factors in increasing the resilience of farmers in the region is low. This is particularly significant in relation to the factors affecting government policies and support. So that only the mean of five variables is higher than the numerical desirability of the test and the other 15 variables do not have a suitable status for increasing the resilience of the farmers. Also, the results of the Vikor model showed that most of the impact on their resilience to drought and climate change was the development of agricultural insurance, the second important impact belongs to drought monitoring system, climate change and damage assessment, and variable of attention to knowledge is in third place of the important factor.