
Purpose
The aim of this paper is to respond to a gap in the literature around resilience in later life for older people from minority groups of identity or experience. Specifically, it argues that we need to pay greater attention to how access to different types of social capital may leave some older people more or less able to cope with adverse events and how experiences of social exclusion can limit access to important networks of support during times of crisis.


Design/methodology/approach
This paper draws on research conducted to inform the resilience strategy of Greater Manchester in 2019, and specifically looked at how this strategy could better address the needs of the regions’ diverse ageing population. It used a qualitative design including focus groups with older women of Punjabi heritage living in Greater Manchester, interviews with staff from a community and voluntary organisation working with these women, and interviews with staff at an organisation supporting refugees and asylum seekers in Greater Manchester who specifically worked with older adults.


Findings
The research found that belonging to a minority group and experiences of social exclusion gave participants in this study both resources and vulnerabilities when it came to dealing with external shocks in later life. Whilst participants in this study had access to strong networks of bonding capital based on shared identity and experience, social exclusion often meant they faced barriers to accessing network of support outside of these communities.


Research limitations/implications
Findings from this study have implications for both future research and policy. In the case of the latter there are implications for those working in resilience planning in terms of how to address the needs of diverse older populations. For researchers, this paper has implications for how we understand the impacts on inequality in later life particularly in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.


Originality/value
The originality of this paper lies in its consideration of the impact of inequalities and social exclusion on the resilience of older people in times of crisis. It included older people from minority groups of identity and experience addressing an important gap in the literature.
