 TPS11043  Background: Rates of burnout and career dissatisfaction have declined slightly, but remain high among oncologists (Berg, AMA 2020). As hematology oncology fellows prepare to join this workforce, the ACGME now mandates wellness be a part of their training curriculum. Yet, there are few, if any, structured and effective programs specifically for these trainees. Based on feedback from our prior mindfulness-based wellness curriculum, we created a more varied and comprehensive resiliency program with the use of our institutional resources to incorporate and evaluate as part of our fellowship curriculum (ASCO, Abstract 10508), and potentially expand to other fellowships. Methods: This is a single-center, non-randomized, pilot project to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and impact of a resiliency training program. All hematology oncology fellows at our institution were eligible for enrollment, and participation was voluntary. A total of seven monthly, 1 hour sessions were conducted through the academic year. Each session focused on a particular topic - alternative forms of wellness through art and music, self care, mindfulness and stretching, reflective writing, and healthy boundaries and work life integration - which have all been studied individually in wellness and burnout with positive results. Sessions were co-led by a peer and “expert” guest speakers from our training institution. Participants completed questionnaires pre and post-program, and feedback evaluations after each session. Questionnaires included the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ), Connor Davidson Resiliency Scale (CDRS-10), and modified Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI), as well as demographics and open response questions. The primary aim was feasibility (enrollment, completion, and compliance rates), and the secondary aim was acceptability (usefulness of the intervention). Examination of stress, mindfulness, resiliency, and burnout were exploratory. Enrollment and data collection are complete, with 18 of 29 (62%) eligible participants consented. Data analysis is in process. 