ABSTRACT

            This work investigated the role of
            rpoS
            in the development of increased cell envelope resilience and enhanced pressure resistance in stationary-phase cells of
            Escherichia coli
            . Loss of both colony-forming ability and membrane integrity, measured as uptake of propidium iodide (PI), occurred at lower pressures in
            E. coli
            BW3709 (
            rpoS
            ) than in the parental strain (BW2952). The
            rpoS
            mutant also released much higher concentrations of protein under pressure than the parent. We propose that RpoS-regulated functions are responsible for the increase in membrane resilience as cells enter stationary phase and that this plays a major role in the development of pressure resistance. Strains from the Keio collection with mutations in two RpoS-regulated genes,
            cfa
            (cyclopropane fatty acyl phospholipid synthase) and
            osmB
            (outer membrane lipoprotein), were significantly more pressure sensitive and took up more PI than the parent strain, with
            cfa
            having the greatest effect. Mutations in the
            bolA
            morphogene and other RpoS-regulated lipoprotein genes (
            osmC
            ,
            osmE
            ,
            osmY
            , and
            ybaY
            ) had no effect on pressure resistance. The cytoplasmic membranes of the
            rpoS
            mutant failed to reseal after pressure treatment, and strains with mutations in
            o
smB
            and
            nlpI
            (new lipoprotein) were also somewhat impaired in the ability to reseal their membranes. The
            cfa
            mutant, though pressure sensitive, was unaffected in membrane resealing, implying that the initial transient permeabilization event is critical for loss of viability rather than the failure to reseal. The enhanced pressure sensitivity of
            polA
            ,
            recA
            , and
            xthA
            mutants suggested that DNA may be a target of oxidative stress in pressure-treated cells.
          