Abstract

Objectives
Patients suffering from chronic pain experience significant disability and disease burden. Resilience has been understood to be a protective factor in face of adversity, eventually contributing to positive outcomes. As such, the current review sought to summarize the existing literature focusing on the roles of resilience in relation to pain phenomenology, pain outcomes (including function and mental health), amongst relevant clinical correlates in a bid to promote holistic management of debilitating chronic pain conditions from a resilience-oriented psychotherapeutic approach as an adjunct to pharmacological treatment.


Methods
A scoping review was conducted on empirical studies surrounding the theme of resilience in adult chronic pain populations published before 9th May 2021. The following main inclusion criteria was applied; (a) adults diagnosed with chronic pain disorders, (b) use of quantifiable pain measures, (c) use of quantifiable resilience measures. A total of 32 studies were then selected for the review.


Results
First, higher levels of resilience were associated with a reduced likelihood of experiencing any chronic pain, fewer pain sites, better psychological response towards nociception and reduced need for analgesia. Second, higher levels of resilience correlated with better daily and physical function, quality of life, psychosocial functioning and lower likelihood of co-morbid mental health disorders. Third, resilience was an intermediary variable in the pathways from pain phenomenology leading to pain interference, depression and post-traumatic growth.


Conclusions
The findings were contextualized using pain-disability and resilience frameworks (The Pain and Disability Drivers Model, O’Leary’s Resilience models) with suggestions to enhance resilience and contextual factors in the holistic management of adult chronic pain conditions. Future research should examine the differences in resilience between pain types as well as evaluate the efficacy of streamlined resilience-oriented interventions.
