Introduction:The Victorian Compendium of Community-Based Resilience Building Case Studies supports place-based disaster risk reduction by promoting strategies to reduce communities’ risk before, during, and after disasters or emergencies and by strengthening community resilience through shared learning. It grew from Community Resilience Forums at Monash University, where community resilience practitioners presented their programs, explained their evolution, how they solved challenges, and shared unforeseen learnings. Forum attendees expressed an urgency for a sharing platform to help build community expertise, save precious community resources, avoid program duplication to prevent communities from reinventing the wheel. These now represent key tenets of the Compendium.Method:International exemplars inform the structure of the Compendium and a thematic analysis identified critical success factors for underpinning disaster risk reduction and resilience strategies.Results:As an Australian first, the Compendium gathered 38 programs between 2012 and 2022, which were addressed before (29), during (7), and after (17) events. Programs addressed all hazards (23), bushfires (11), heat (2), fire safety (1), and house fires (1). Twenty programs used a framework. Thirty received funding, with nine receiving less than $20,000 and five receiving more than $100,000. Twenty-nine addressed a whole-of-community perspective.Critical success factors included: strong governance and Board support; trust, partnerships, commitment, adaptability, stamina, and community leadership; paid facilitator, local government support, external funding; and celebrating often-neglected success.Conclusion:Offering an innovative contribution to resilience practice and research, the Compendium supports and enables locally-led and owned place-based disaster risk reduction efforts. It supports the Sendai Framework and augments principles in the National Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction by connecting people from diverse sectors to deliver distinct, adaptable actions to help reduce communities’ risk before, during, and after disasters or emergencies. The Compendium enables communities to preserve valuable community resources offering opportunities to extend to a national or international Compendium.