Abstract
Social resilience is the ability of community to cope the external stress that related with ecological/environmental changes. Ecological resilience is how fast environment could recovery from the incoming substance and could support community livelihood in that area. There is a clear link between social resilience and ecological resilience, especially for community that dependent on natural resources for their livelihood. This is preliminary study that will examine how social resilience could affect by ecological changes. Within this context, we explore the shock and adaption in Kepulauan Seribu Regency (DKI Jakarta Province) and Takalar Regency (South Sulawesi Province), Indonesia – a coastal community that using seaweed farming as their livelihood. This study presents a literature review and in-depth interview approach to explain more about how seaweed farmer can survive from the ecological changes and what is the alternative livelihood for their sustainability in that area. Seaweed cultivation is one of the coastal community livelihoods that dependent on natural resources and ecological condition. Seaweed cultivation has given a positive impact to local economic condition of coastal community but the changes of ecological condition could directly affect seaweed productivity. Ecological resilience in coastal area is how fast they could recovery from the incoming substance and always support community livelihood in that area. The quickness of ecological recovery is related to how much; and how long; and extensive the effect of incoming substance. Seaweed cultivation in Panggang Island (one island in Kepulauan Seribu islands) has started since 1986. The cultivation become booming since there are a high price of seaweed in this area. In 2000, there are Hugh reductions of seaweed production in Kepulauan Seribu. Farmers have tried to replant the seaweed but always failed. The new seed is become damaged and rotten. Since that time, there was no seaweed cultivation in Kepulauan Seribu. In 2013, one of the farmers in Kepulauan Seribu begins to try to grow seaweed. Seaweed seed start to grow well in mid-2014. According to the farmers on Panggang Island, successes and failures of seaweed cultivation is affected by changes in the harvesting season. In Takalar, production of seaweed cultivation constrained by environment factors like monsoon; urban development that causes water pollution; and issues about “land” ownership.