Background: Infertility creates many psychological problems for infertile women. This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of positive psychotherapy on mental endurance, self-compassion and resilience of infertile women. Methods: This study was a randomized controlled clinical trial. The statistical population of the present study included infertile women in Tehran in 1396 who visited the infertility centers of Hope and doctor Shariati. In this study among the infertile women who referred to infertility center of Tehran, 30 women were selected and placed randomly in the test group and the control group. The test group received the intervention in two and a half months at ten sessions of 90 minutes. However, the control group did not receive this intervention during the research process. The questionnaire used in this study included Psychological distress tolerance questionnaire. Resilience Scale and self-compassion questionnaire. The data were analyzed through analysis of covariance using statistical software SPSS24. Results: The results of the analysis showed that positive psychotherapy has been effective on mental endurance, self-compassion and resilience of infertile women (P-value < 0.001). Therefore, it has been able to improve mental endurance, self-compassion and resilience of infertile women . Conclusion: Based on the findings of this study, it can be concluded that positive psychotherapy can be used as an effective treatment for mental endurance, self-compassion and resilience of infertile women.Keywords: Mental Endurance, Self-Compassion, Resilience, Infertility, Positive.
Results: The results of the analysis showed that positive psychotherapy has been effective on mental endurance, self-compassion and resilience of infertile women (P-value < 0.001). Therefore, it has been able to improve mental endurance, self-compassion and resilience of infertile women . Conclusion: Based on the findings of this study, it can be concluded that positive psychotherapy can be used as an effective treatment for mental endurance, self-compassion and resilience of infertile women.Keywords: Mental Endurance, Self-Compassion, Resilience, Infertility, Positive