Objectives: The present cross-sectional study was done to acknowledge the level of resilience, its association with quality of life (QoL), community integration, and demographic/injury-related variables, and identify the determinants that affect resilience among spinal cord injury individuals living in the community. Methods: The data were collected from 108 participants using the convenience sampling method. A demographic/injury-related questionnaire was used to identify the characteristics of the participants. The CD-RISC10, World Health Organization quality of life-BREF (WHOQOL-BREF), and community integration questionnaire-revised (CIQ-R) were used to measure resilience, QoL, and community integration. Association between resilience and independent variables was examined through Pearson’s correlation and Point-Biserial correlation, whereas, univariate and multivariate linear regression analyses were applied to identify the influence of the demographic/injury-related factors that contribute to resilience, and independent t-test and ANOVA were employed to identify the determinants that affect resilience. Results: Almost 78% of participants had a moderate-to-high level of resilience. In multivariate analysis, gender, marital status, and profession were found to be statistically significant. Among these predictors, employment had a higher beta value (β=0.684, P=0.026), which signifies its importance in evaluating resilience. Significant associations were established between resilience, QoL domains, community integration, and demographic variables, which included marital status, duration since the injury, and frequency of going out. Discussion: The present research brings attention to the significance of using appropriate interventions, such as vocational rehabilitation support as well as awareness about the injury to help strengthen resilience and reintegration amongst SCI individuals into their communities. A further longitudinal study is recommended to determine predictive factors of the dynamic nature of resilience over time.