Mali is one of the largest mango producing country in the world. Despite its production potential, the country's mango plantations are not resistant to the effects of climate change, the negative impacts of climate change affects the production, the adaptation of growth and the development of the main exportable varieties. The development of a tree crop resilient to the adverse effects of climate change is necessary to meet the ever-increasing demand. The objective of this study was to compare growth resilience techniques of Kent and Keitt varieties of mango in the face of environmental disruptions. The experimental study was conducted from 2016 to 2018 in an IPR/IFRA orchard in Katibougou to document growth traits. The behavior of the two mango varieties through four cultivation techniques was tested (mulched plowed plot, mulched unplowed, plot plowed plot, and unplowed un-mulched plot). Three different periods were selected after planting: from 6th to 11th month (February-June), from 12th to 18th month (July-November) and from 19th to 24th (December-April). The mulched plowed technique was the best technique to improve the resilience of mango varieties to climatic variability. Among all the growth traits studied: the survival rate, the length of Growth Unit (GU), the speed of GU, the number of leaves, the phyllochron duration, the plowing with mulching technique obtained the best values; particularly for the interval of time between the dates of emergence of two successive vegetative shoots (phyllochron), which was less than one month. Except for the growth rate of the GU, for all the growth studied traits, both varieties behaved similarly under the different cultivation techniques. The good resistance of the Kent variety with a survival rate of about 100%, and the phyllochron achievement time of the Keitt variety were noted. The technique of plowing with mulching could be proposed for adoption to mango producers in the Koulikoro district, and the choice of Kent or Keitt varieties could be made after confirmation tests.