Purpose: The aim of the study is to identify the essential attributes that determine the development of a sustainable, innovative and resistant to disruption transport infrastructure and to answer two research questions: How to shape models for the development of sustainable and innovative transport infrastructure, while maintaining the logistic continuity of mobility and transport systems? and What actions should organizations take in the conditions of permanent change in order to maintain operational efficiency and cost-effectiveness of implemented investments, not only thinking about the possible return of the pandemic, but also about increasingly difficult access to resources, climate change and social needs? Design/methodology/approach: The research methods and techniques used included, among others: content analysis, cause and effect analysis, selected methods of qualitative and quantitative analysis, which were used to present and discuss the results of the study. Findings: Searching for methods of operationalization of the implementation of the assumptions of the new development paradigm, a conceptual framework for the model of sustainable development of transport infrastructure was developed. EU programs and instruments supporting the financing of activities in the field of development of sustainable, innovative and resilient transport infrastructure were reviewed. Attributes were indicated so that the development would strive for the simultaneous implementation of economic, social and environmental goals. Research limitations/implications: The study did not measure the sustainability of infrastructure investments in transport. The precondition for successfully performing such a task is the availability of an accurate data set and the selection of appropriate measurement indicators. This has implications for future research. Practical implications: One of the key challenges in cities is making decisions about investments in the development of economically effective, environmentally safe and socially important transport infrastructure. Hence, the development of algorithmic approaches that allow the use of the proposed qualitative model may contribute to improving the efficiency in making investment decisions. Originality/value: The originality of the conducted research was achieved through its measurable character. The proposed model can contribute to the improvement of decision- making tools in the field of allocation of public and other funds for investments, so that they contribute to the sustainability of mobility systems. Keywords: transport infrastructure, sustainable development, financial instruments. Category of the paper: research paper.