Abstract. Infrastructure systems are inextricably tied to society by providing a
variety of vital services. These systems play a fundamental role in reducing
the vulnerability of communities and increasing their resilience to natural
and human-induced hazards. While various definitions of resilience for
infrastructure systems exist, analyzing the resilience of these systems
within cross-sectoral and interdisciplinary perspectives remains limited and
fragmented in research and practice. With the aim to assist researchers and
practitioners in advancing understanding of resilience in designing
infrastructure systems, this systematic literature review synthesizes and
complements existing knowledge on designing resilient vital infrastructures
by identifying (1) key conceptual tensions and challenges, (2) engineering
and non-engineering measures, and (3) directions for future research. Here,
a conceptual framework is developed in which infrastructures are defined as
a conglomeration of interdependent social–ecological–technical systems. In
addition, we define resilient infrastructures as systems with ability to
(i) anticipate and absorb disturbances, (ii) adapt/transform in response to changes, (iii) recover, and (iv) learn from prior unforeseen events. Our
results indicate that conceptual and practical challenges in designing
resilient infrastructures continue to exist. Hence these systems are still
being built without taking resilience explicitly into account. Our review of
measures and recent applications shows that the available measures have not
been widely applied in designing resilient infrastructure systems. Key
concerns to address are identified as (i) the integration of social,
ecological, and technical resilience of infrastructure systems with explicit
attention paid to cascading effects and dependencies across these complex
systems and (ii) the development of new technologies to identify factors
that create different recovery characteristics.
                    