The researcher addressed the study of evaluating the context of resilience in adults who, for over three (03) years, have experienced a severe traffic accident resulting in complete lower paralysis. Drawing on psychoanalytic exploration of resilience on one hand, and clinical and psychodynamic analysis of acquired motor disability in adults on the other hand, the concept of resilience was considered within the adopted definition as a dynamic context culminating in the integration of compounded shock (facing real threat of death and the shock linked to self-loss). This is followed by a rebound and identity reconstruction, ultimately leading to the resumption of life in a new direction, intertwined with a new body. Emphasis was placed on the idea that the context is influenced by the continuous interaction between each participant's internal psychological resources and external resources represented by their family and social environment, which they might have access to. To achieve this, the researcher resorted to qualitative analysis, employing semi-structured clinical interviews and projective techniques, including the Rorschach test and the Thematic Apperception Test (T.A.T). Furthermore, certain dimensions of psychological functioning were considered, such as the breadth of imaginative space, mentalization’s quality, the adaptive use of defense mechanisms and finally, the process of identity reconstruction. On the other hand, the external reality was approached through the potential encounter of the participants with a supporting person that assists them in regaining their re-narcissization. The results unveiled variations in the paths each participant took towards achieving resilience. This was linked to the diverse and effective interplay between their inner psychological reality and individual resources. The presence of a good resilience caregiver was noted to assist in surpassing the traumatic experience. A few participants displayed superficial resilience, while the results also demonstrated a diversity in the meaning assigned to the compounded traumatic event,including divine punishment, predestination, self-validation, and the discovery of new meaning in life