Objective: This study aims to explore and enhance the tourism-forestry risk management  in research and industry practice. By integrating the concept of resilience and sustainability into risk management practices, this research addresses the multifaceted challenges faced by the forest-tourism field and promotes its long-term viability.
 
Methods: The study comprised of three stages. Firstly, it employs the scoping review technique in the Scopus database system to seek for research gaps related to the objective of the study. Secondly, the study continues with conceptual analysis from Malaysian context particularly on the industrial avenue to assess the current state of risk management practices. Final stage is to propose a tourism-forestry risk management framework for the  tourism industry in Malaysia. This study evaluates the effectiveness of existing risk management strategies and identifies gaps and opportunities for improvement by analysing publicly available data from researchers, various stakeholders such as government agencies, industry professionals, and local communities.
 
Results: The findings contribute to the development of Risk Management Tourism-Forestry Framework (RTFF) for enhancing resilience and sustainability in tourism-forestry systems not limited to Malaysia but also for other nations. Moreover, the research outcomes provide valuable insights for the researchers on the knowledge gaps that should be filled. Furthermore, this study provides great lessons learned for all countries with similar socio-economic and environmental contexts towards the application of a risk management framework in their region. Finally, the proposed SDG-oriented risk management framework of RTFF offers a holistic and integrated approach, taking into account social, economic, and environmental dimensions, and provides a roadmap for fostering resilience and sustainability in the face of evolving challenges.
 
Conclusion:  This study aims to improve the literature reviews on resilience and sustainability in tourism-forestry that are related to risk management issues. The manuscript addresses the multifaceted challenges faced by the tourism-forestry field and promotes its long-term viability by incorporating the concept of sustainable development goals into risk management practises. Elements of tourism-forestry in the state of the art in the literature as well as in practice not to mention the  development of the framework, in which no other study has adopted the same methodology, thus proving the novelty of the study.