AbstractBackgroundCLN3 disease is a neurodegenerative condition presenting in the first decade of life typically leading to death in the third decade. The earliest symptom is rapidly progressive visual impairment followed by intellectual and motor impairments, epilepsy and behavioural disturbances. There are limited data on how the condition affects the family system or the role of family resilience in paediatric neurodegenerative diseases.MethodsSemi‐structured interviews were conducted with eight parents (five mothers and three fathers) of five children with CLN3. Interview questions focused on the experience of having a child with CLN3, its impact on the family system as well as the concept of family resilience. Data were analysed via thematic analysis.ResultsThe thematic analysis resulted in four main themes. The theme ‘recurring losses’ included the feeling of losing a healthy child, the child's loss of abilities and loss of relationships. The theme ‘disruption to the family system’ included that siblings could be ‘side‐lined’, the potential negative impact on romantic relationships and difficulties finding time to oneself. The theme ‘Society is not developed for a progressive disease’ highlighted the difficulties parents faced with respect to contacts with the health and/or social insurance system. The paediatric health care system was seen as supportive, but the adult health care system was not seen as fit for the purpose. Regarding family resilience, parents felt that the disease forced them to reconsider what was important in life. Several parents described that they learned to value small moments of joy and create deep connections through involvement in family routines and rituals.ConclusionsCLN3 places a very significant burden on the family system including parental feelings of loss, impact on family relationships and lack of understanding within the health/social insurance systems. The concept of family resilience may be useful in understanding the experiences of families affected by paediatric neurodegenerative conditions.