Bangladesh is a low-lying deltaic plain country in which three-quarters of the population lives in rural areas, and they are the primary victim of climate invented worst situation (Siddiqui, 2009). As rural area’s people were deprived from the modern technology to mitigate the disaster, so that rural area’s people created y own initiated climate resilient technology to protect themselves. The purpose of this study was to identify indigenous disaster mitigation measures that the community had implemented in order to reduce the negative effects of disaster. The study area was Bakerganj upazila, Barisal which is also a rural based disaster-prone area. In this research, two types of data collection techniques were used, such as as primary and secondary data collection methods, afterwards the collected data were analyzed through Microsoft Excel. The major findings of this study were that, due to climate change the most drastic change was in temperature, which is responsible for occurring different kinds of disaster. Among those in the study area flood was the most prior disaster which may fallen impact on house and agriculture of study area. It was mainly influenced by poverty and lack of community awareness. So that the mostly used climate resilient technology of this area was raising of house platform above flood level (95.87%), plantation of disaster resilient tree around the house (76.29%), raising platform for cultivation (73.20%), using homemade fertilizer for enhance productivity (62.89%) and tying of house to minimize the possibility of destroying (61.86%). Among those raising house platform and cultivable land platform was more sustainable and resilient indigenous technology of this area. Beside more the study area’s people also got support from different GO and NGOs. And also, this area had strong social bonding with each other and local authorities, so that they got advantages from them and they consider this support as their capacity to fight against any kind of disaster. As indigenous technologies are very important for disaster risk reduction so that those should be linked up with local level adaptation plans for increasing the efficiency and resiliency of those locally invented technology, so that those will be easily accepted by the vulnerable community and implemented successfully against disaster.