Objectives The purpose of this study is to identify the structural relationships among early childhood teather's
changed participation in job training, job environment dissatisfaction, the working environment caused by
COVID-19, and resilience.
Methods To achieve this objective, SPSS 25.0 was utilized to analyze data from 192 early childhood teachers.
Pearson's correlation was used to identify the relationship between the research variables, and the measurement
model analysis examined the fitness index through confirmatory factor analysis. Structural equations were utilized
to investigate the structural relationship between the research variables. Direct and total effects were analyzed
as the mediating effect from the 95% confidence interval to two-tailed significance and bootstrap.
Results The main research findings are as follows: First, resilience, self-regulation ability, positivity, and interpersonal
skills in the sub-domains did not show statistically significant results with the experience of participating
in work education for early childhood teachers. However, statistically significant results were obtained for job environment
dissatisfaction, working environment caused by COVID-19 and subfields, relationship with superiors,
job performance, and personal and organizational relationships. Second, the fit between the measurement model
and the structural model was found to be satisfactory. According to the structural relationship between the research
variables, the early childhood teacher's experience of participating in changed job training did not directly
affect resilience, but ‘the experience of participating in changed job training + job environment dissatisfaction of
early childhood teachers → resilience of early childhood teachers’ and ‘changed work education participation experience
→ job environment dissatisfaction → working environment caused by COVID-19 → resilience’, ‘changed
work education participation experience + working environment caused by COVID-19 + resilience’ were found to
be completely mediated by the path. In this process, the working environment caused by COVID-19 can be interpreted
as a double mediation.
Conclusions The results of this study once again confirm that resilience is an essential factor affecting early childhood
teachers, and the mediating effect of the working environment caused by COVID-19 that affects resilience
is necessary. The study results have implications for developing effective interventions to improve the working
conditions of early childhood educators and enhance their resilience in the working environment caused by
COVID-19.