We have determined that in today's turbulent world, entrepreneurship based on profit maximization is gradually being replaced by increasing resilience as the ability of an economic agent to effectively manage risks, resist exogenous and endogenous shocks, and maintain the viability of the economic system. With the emergence of resilience theory and its extension to agroeconomic and agricultural biological systems, there is a need to evaluate the resilience level of farmers to adjust both their development strategies and the state's agrarian policy. It should be noted that, to date, there has yet to be a standardized or officially approved methodology for such assessment procedures. At the same time, studying the resilience of farms requires the formation of homogeneous sets of farms and appropriate statistical samples. The most acceptable criterion is the direction of specialization, which is determined based on the methodology approved by Eurostat. This article aims to study the theoretical and methodological framework for the production typization of cattle-breeding farms in the system of their resilience managing. The place of production typization of agricultural producers in the resilience management system has been determined. We have shown that the production type of agricultural producers is an objective reality. At the same time, it is dynamically changing, improving with the development of productive forces and changes in economic conditions, and is adjusted due to resilience management. It has been confirmed that the basis of production typization should be the principles of accuracy and objectivity and the principles of considering the interests of society, the state, and all stakeholders in agribusiness. In this case, the production type, specialization direction, the economic class of the enterprise, and the value of standard output become not only descriptors of the enterprise but also fundamental factors of its resilience potential. The methodological and regulatory framework for determining the production types of cattle-breeding farms according to the FADN methodology has been systematized.
Keywords: resilience, risk management, cattle-breeding farms, production typization, specialization, FADN statistics.