Purpose. Violence is a factor that is frequently encountered in health systems and causes problems of various sizes. Nursing students who take an active role in health environments and are also inexperienced are also exposed to this workplace violence. Mental health nurses and nursing students practicing in this field aim to improve the quality of patient care while managing violence and aggression. It is thought that the inability of nursing students practicing in the field of mental health to successfully manage violence and demonstrate resilience may affect their clinical performance and reduce the quality of patient care. This study was conducted to determine the psychological resilience levels, caring behaviors, and violence management competencies of nursing students and to reveal the relationship between the variables. Design and Methods. The type of study is descriptive and cross-sectional. The sample of the study consisted of 452 nursing students who agreed to participate in the study. The data of the study were collected using the personal information form, Adult Resilience Scale, Caring Behaviors Scale-24, and Violence Management Competency Scale for nursing students in practice areas. This study was reported following the STROBE (Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology) recommendations. Findings. A statistically significant positive correlation was found among the psychological resilience levels, caring behaviors, and violence management proficiency of the students participating in the study (

p
=
0.001

). Practice Implications. It is very important to determine the psychological resilience, care behaviors, and violence management competency levels of nursing students, who are the professionals of the future, to present nursing care from a holistic framework and to increase the quality of the care provided. In this context, it is recommended to determine the psychological resilience, care behaviors, and violence management competency levels of nursing students in their education and training processes.