Throughout history, human beings have been attracted to waterfront living.  Today, most residents live in cities, most of which, in turn, are built on  flood plains and in coastal areas – areas often threatened by floods.  Physical changes to the environment have changed the response of catchments  and rivers to heavy rainfall. Despite attempts to control the size of  floods, economic growth – especially as experienced in Asia – has led to  an explosion in exposure to floods. The most integrated, cost-effective  method for disaster reduction and prevention requires that risk be assessed  purposefully and adequately. Disaster risk is captured in two major  components: occurrence probability and event intensity and reach, and its  consequences. Understanding the risks associated with floods in Asia has  been hindered by the complexity of flood dynamics in large river basins and  in existing or unreliable datasets. With calculation power increasingly  available, the development of flexible modeling systems and the appearance  of new datasets, so-called probabilistic flood models can now be developed  for large areas to quantify risks. A flexible modeling framework has been  developed at DHI to better characterize flood plains and complex hydraulic  systems in datapoor and highly exposed areas in Asia. The model relies on  automated processes merging freely available datasets such as HydroSHEDS,  WorldPop, crowd-sourced data available in OpenStreet Map and Landsat 7 and 8  satellite imagery. The combination of spatial data sources provides  opportunities to optimize the hydrodynamic model domain and to improve the  lowresolution digital elevation model. Such methods enhance flood hazard  information conventionally derived from deterministic models by taking a  full probabilistic approach considering source loading conditions, e.g.,  weather events and sea level rise, and the performance of existing and  planned mitigation measures and failures of control structures such as  dykes. With risks better quantified, new opportunities arise for  cost-effective mitigation and resilience measures and for the development of  novel risk transfer schemes through the use of insurance and capital  markets.