AbstractDue to the extensive focus of the literature on the burden placed on families in which a member has been diagnosed with a mental illness such as schizophrenia, there is a need to identify factors that may help these families to be resilient and adapt to their crisis. The aim of this study was to identify family resilience qualities in families in which a member has been diagnosed with schizophrenia. The study comprised 42 families, represented by 33 parents and 9 siblings of the diagnosed family member. Families were recruited from three support groups within the Cape Metropolitan area, Western Cape, South Africa. Qualitative data were obtained through an open‐ended question and quantitative data were collected with seven self‐report questionnaires. The following family resilience qualities were identified: family income; finding support in their community; family togetherness; family communication style during crises; affirming and supportive communication patterns; family hardiness; commitment to the family; reframing crises as a challenge; and an internal locus of control within the family. The findings may be used by professionals and support group facilitators to enhance the resilience and functioning of families living with a member with schizophrenia.Accessible summary
With approximately 1% of the world's population diagnosed with schizophrenia, it is clear that many families are affected when a member has been diagnosed. There is a need to identify factors that may help these families to be resilient.
The aim of this study was to identify family resilience qualities in families in which a member has been diagnosed with schizophrenia.
The following family resilience qualities were identified as resources that helped them to adapt to the many challenges put to them: family income, finding support in their community, the availability of hospitals, churches and professionals, family togetherness, family communication, family hardiness, commitment to the family, reframing crises as a challenge, and an internal locus of control within the family.
Due to the limited studies on resilience in families in which a member has been diagnosed with schizophrenia, we suggest that the current study may contribute to this literature and provide a more comprehensive look at resilience in these families. Furthermore, the current study may contribute to knowledge about factors and resources that are associated with resilience in families in which a member has been diagnosed with schizophrenia. Finally, the findings of this study may be used in interventions to help families from different cultures and socio‐economic statuses to adapt and hence be resilient.
