The purpose of this study is to enhance the empirical and theoretical understanding of the local aspects of resilience, which makes it possible to assess resilience levels in rural communities in the Russian North under new economic conditions. The study shows that during the Soviet era, the state provided economic support to sustain the viability of northern villages. As a result of the market reforms of the past century, most collective and state farms fell into decline, which led to labor migration. Despite negative demographic trends, the difficult economic situation, and limited transportation access, there is still a permanent resident population in northern villages. Based on the theory of resilience, methodological approaches to its assessment,and the results of field studies conducted in villages located on the island and coastal territories of the Primorsky district in the Arkhangelsk region between 2017 and 2022, the authors identify factors that determine the resilience of rural communities in the new economic conditions. These include location, local economy, and social capital. Indicators were established for each of the factors to propose a methodology for their assessment. As a result, an integrated resilience index was calculated for rural communities in the island and coastal territories of the Primorsky district in the Arkhangelsk region. It is concluded that the assessment of resilience levels of rural communities can provide information about society’s preparedness to face external challenges and identify which resources (economic, social, or natural) are robust or vulnerable. The novelty of the research lies in considering resilience as a new research paradigm for studying social systems and validating a methodology for its assessment based on qualitative indicators. The results of the study can be used to develop new strategies for the social and economic progress of rural areas and specific plans to facilitate the adaptation of rural residents in the Russian North to emerging economic challenges.