Objectives. Internal Medicine physician trainees faced unique challenges as the primary frontline physicians at a tertiary COVID-19 government referral center during the COVID-19 pandemic. This study examined the prevalence of burnout and resilience of these physician trainees during the early period of the pandemic, the determinants of burnout, and their sources of anxiety and coping mechanisms.
Methods. Using a mixed-methods approach, we conducted an online cross-sectional survey to measure burnout and resilience among 196 Internal Medicine physician trainees using the Maslach Burnout Index Human Services Survey for Medical Personnel and the Connor-Davidson Resiliency questionnaires, respectively. We then conducted virtual focus group discussions and in-depth key informant interviews to explore the trainees’ sources of anxiety and coping mechanisms until thematic saturation was satisfied.
Results. Out of 146 respondents (from 196 eligible participants, 74% response rate), four percent of physician trainees fit the frank burnout profile, 40% were engaged, while the majority had intermediate profiles (23% ineffective, 28% overextended, and 4% disengaged). The mean resilience score was 72.9 (SD 12.4). Resilience was a significant negative predictor for burnout (Beta Coefficient = -0.73, p<0.001). Its protective effect decreases in those with more exposure to patient deaths (Beta Coefficient = 6.767, p<0.05). Significant sources of anxiety included changes in the practice of medicine (changes in workflow, working in full personal protective equipment, telemedicine and zoom fatigue, constant threat of acquiring the infection) and having competing demands between service and training. Coping mechanisms included preserving a haven, maintaining social relationships, and self-care.
Conclusion. In the largest government hospital in the Philippines, four percent of Internal Medicine physician trainees had burnout, 40% were engaged, and the majority were at-risk for burnout a few months into the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. Resilience reduces the risk for burnout. However, its protective effect decreased with exposure to a higher number of patient deaths per week.