AbstractThe common cockle is a valuable bivalve species inhabiting the Atlantic European coasts. The parasite Marteilia cochillia has devastated cockle beds in the southern Galician (NW Spain) rias since 2012. Previous data suggested that cockles from Ría de Arousa acquired some resilience to this parasite through natural selection after consecutive annual marteiliosis outbreaks and candidate markers associated with marteiliosis resilience were identified using population genomics and transcriptomics approaches. Here, a common garden experiment was performed using a naïve stock (from Ría de Muros‐Noia) and an affected stock (from Ría de Arousa) to test this hypothesis. Breeders from both stocks were used to produce seed cohorts at hatchery, which were pre‐grown in a raft (outdoor nursery stage) and deployed in two shellfish beds affected by marteiliosis in Ría de Arousa (growing‐out stage). In both beds, the naïve stock showed high marteiliosis prevalence and was fully depleted in a short period, while the affected stock barely showed evidence of marteiliosis. A set of 45 SNPs putatively associated with marteiliosis resilience were fitted for MassARRAY genotyping to check their role in the differential resilience detected between both stocks. Though no significant differentiation was found between the naïve and the affected stocks with neutral markers, 28 SNPs showed significant divergence between them, suggesting that these SNPs were involved in directional selection during eight generations (to the most) of marteiliosis pressure (long‐term selection). Furthermore, signals of selection were also detected in the naïve stock along the marteiliosis outbreak in the growing‐out stage (short‐term selection) and six SNPs, all shared with the long‐term evaluation, showed consistent signals of differentiation according to the infection severity. Some of these SNPs were located within immune genes pertaining to families such as proteasome, ubiquitin, tumor necrosis factor, and glutathione S‐transferase. These resilience‐associated markers will be useful to recover cockle production in Galicia.