Coastal areas are highly vulnerable to flood risks, which are exacerbated by the changing climate. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the literature on coastal flood risk assessment and resilience evaluation and proposes a smart-resilient city framework based on pre-disaster, mid-disaster, and post-disaster evaluations. First, this paper systematically reviews the origin of the resilience concept and the development of flood resilience. Next, it introduces the social-acceptable risk criteria and the flood resilience level for different flood phases. Then, a coastal flood resilience management system for smart cities is proposed, covering 3 phases of flood disasters (before, during, and after). Risk assessment is essential in pre-disaster scenarios because it provides a comprehensive understanding of the potential hazards and vulnerabilities of an area or system. Big data monitoring during disasters is an essential component of effective emergency management and response that can allow for more informed decisions and thus quicker, more effective responses to disasters, ultimately saving lives and minimizing damage. Data-informed loss assessments are crucial in providing a rapid, accurate understanding of post-disaster impact. This understanding, in turn, is instrumental in expediting recovery and reconstruction efforts by aiding decision-making processes and resource allocation. Finally, the impacts of climate change on the 3 phases of flood disasters are summarized. The development of more resilient coastal communities that are better equipped to withstand the impacts of climate change and adapt to changing environmental conditions is crucial. To address coastal compound floods, researchers should focus on understanding trigging factor interactions, assessing economic and social risks, improving monitoring and emergency response systems, and promoting interdisciplinary research with data openness. These strategies will enable comprehensive and holistic management of coastal flood risks in the context of climate change.