Abstract

Background
&gt;100 million people worldwide have been forced to flee their homes because of torture, conflict, violence, and human rights violations. Asylum Seekers and Refugees (ASRs) make up a third of this group. ASRs are more likely to experience poor mental health compared to the general population. This study systematically reviewed the studies of mental health resilience and potential factors promoting resilience in this population.


Methods
A comprehensive and systematic literature search was conducted using PubMed, MEDLINE, Cochrane library, Google scholar, ScienceDirect, Sage Journals, and Taylor & Francis online. Electronic search was carried out using terms related to resilience, mental health, and ASRs. Qualitative studies published in English until March 2022 and exploring the role of resilience in mental health and wellbeing of ASRs were eligible for inclusion. The studies were analyzed using a thematic analysis approach using Braun and Clarke's 6 step process. Quality assessment was conducted using Joanna Briggs Institute critical appraisal Tool.


Results
Of the 9,708 studies identified in the electronic search, 10 were eligible for inclusion. Three key themes were identified as promoting resilience: social support from peers and family, religion and spirituality, and individual factors. The studies emphasized the value of family and peer support in keeping the sprits alive and finding strengths to keep going. Spirituality and religion were reported as crucial factors in staying grounded and hopeful against all odds. Individual factors such as reflection, reframing and positive thinking were described as coping strategies during adversities.


Conclusions
The review highlighted the important role of resilience related factors in the mental health and wellbeing of ASR populations. More studies in this area are required to inform the development of interventions to promote resilience and improve the mental health and wellbeing of ASRs.


Key messages
• Peer and family support, religion and spirituality, reframing and positive thinking play keel role in the mental health and wellbeing of asylum seekers and refugees.
• There is a dearth of research exploring the factors promoting mental health resilience in asylum seekers and refugees.
