Purpose: The study aimed to determine the best-fit model for organizational resilience of local government unit employees regarding servant leadership, cultural dimension, and employees' adversity quotient. The descriptive-causal method and non-experimental quantitative research design were applied. Organizations considerably give these effects of the worrying manifestations attention to guarantee social support in times of need. Resilient leaders should have access to trusted peers and social groups, time, reflection, collaboration, and conversational development chances that request to reduce social seclusion and more chances for partnerships. In this context, the researcher was prompted to conduct the study to determine whether servant leadership, cultural dimension, adversity quotient, and the employees' resilience, especially in local government units, should be strengthened in response to adverse circumstances. Therefore, this would fill the gap, as supported by the literature regarding the local setting.
Methodology: Three hundred ninety-three employees from six cities in Davao Region were surveyed using standardized adapted instruments. The survey questionnaire used was validated and approved by experts. The respondents were selected through a stratified sampling technique. Data were analyzed using the Mean, Pearson r, Regression Analysis, and Structural Equation Modeling.
Findings: Results revealed that all variables gained a very high level. The result of the study also revealed an overall significant relationship and influence between the exogenous and endogenous variables. Furthermore, the best-fit model for organizational resilience was generated and demonstrated a direct effect in Model 5, and the goodness of fit measures' requirements were met. It is detected that there is a correlation between the exogenous and Endogenous variables. The important relationship between the exogenous and endogenous variables, which predicts the study's findings, is a pronouncement that being resilient and adverse to a chaotic situation could be effective and useful to withstand an employee's life
Recommendations: The suggestion between the Exogenous and Endogenous in creating organizational resilience in municipal governments should be essentially measured. This is recommended to the Human Resource Management that embraces and exercises the practice of being efficient in their work and responsibilities to impart individual adversity consciousness and cultivate the employees from training and development. 