The purpose of lifelong learning is the formation and development of personality at different ages, including the period of ageing of the body. That is why the problem of exploring the role of spiritual values and the vitality of the individual in the context of lifelong learning is becoming increasingly important due to the importance of promoting the strengthening of the individual's position in professional activity. Purpose of the article is to identify and analyze the peculiarities of spiritual values and vitality of a person in the conditions of lifelong learning in Ukraine. Spirituality is a religious category. At the same time, spirituality is a social and moral value, the essence of which is the ability to create a humanistic tolerant free world. Resilience is a trait characterized by a measure of overcoming the personality of the given circumstances, a measure of overcoming the personality of oneself. Vital stability is the basis for life-giving, which can be defined as a human activity to create one's own life. In our study involved 62 adolescents, we used the following empirical research methods: the test of the viability of S. Maddy; the SAMOAL questionnaire (by A.V. Lazukin, of M.F. Kalin's adaptation); author's research questionnaire regarding the study of spirituality and spiritual values of the individual.
It turns out that a person who shares the values of a self-actualizing personality is characterized by being successful in overcoming adversity. A significant direct correlation of a person's spiritual values with his / her vitality and involvement, control and acceptance of risk as "hardy" attitudes was revealed. The vitality of the individual plays an essential role in his continuing education as a basis for social progress. The vitality of the individual can counteract the negative influences of the environment, effectively overcome life's difficulties, transforming them into situations of development; promotes self-actualization of the personality, motivates to self-development, promotes a healthy way of thinking and behaviour.
 