 Background: Public health emergencies (PHE) caused by natural hazards spread from one particular locality to adjacent geographic areas and then encompass the entire planet in today’s fast global connectivity mode. Each country, including India, has its own set of potential disasters based on the hazards present as well as the unique vulnerabilities of the community and community’s preparedness to respond to particular disasters. Currently, human history is observing a very critical time fighting an invisible enemy—COVID-19. Therefore, in this study, we seek to understand the standardised measures of public hospital preparedness and resilience at times of health emergencies, including a pandemic, the most current one being COVID-19.  Methods: We conducted a descriptive, cross-sectional study among health officials of district hospitals (DHs) and community health centres (CHCs) of Rajasthan using a semi-structured online questionnaire, with COVID-19 in mind, and sending it to those who had attended a training programme on disaster preparedness in hospitals.  Results: In all, questionnaires were sent to 80 health officials of DHs and CHCs, of which 58 responded, with a response rate of 72.5 per cent. We collected responses on public health emergency preparedness, training-related issues, the capacity to deal with emergencies and prior experience in managing an emergency.  Conclusion: The resilience and preparedness of DHs and CHCs in Rajasthan appear to be limited. From the studies it has been revealed that proper training and education on disasters like the current COVID-19, which is of significant importance for healthcare workers, is limited to only 37.9 per cent of healthcare workers. It also emerges that the staff members whenever required could mark and perform in the triage area, but the Isolation room haven’t got the request facilities and equipped to stabilise a critical patient despite availability of emergency stock of medicine. The stated functional status of DHs and CHCs reveals that the level of emergency preparedness is between low and medium and also varies from hospital to hospital and from CHC to CHC. Hence, it is time to reassess and upgrade emergency preparedness plans, which include mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery. Federal-, state- and local-level emergency management agencies’ functioning has to be effective and well-coordinated with the local level of operation. 