Objective - This study intends to identify the post-COVID-19 safe working practices that have been established and to investigate how the workplace's culture of safety practices has evolved due to the pandemic.
Methodology/Technique - The study used a conceptual development framework that used two data sources: journal publications (secondary data) and field interviews (primary data). The secondary data analysis of the literature review revealed seven post-pandemic workplace practices that are being employed in this study. These practices include workplace hazard control factors and preparedness plan factors.
Findings – Based on the interviews with the 22 companies (safety personnel and practitioners) in the various industries, it was discovered that only three aspects of post-pandemic workplace safety culture were totally actual practices and adopted by all the companies, namely: following guidance from the federal state and Ministry of Health (MOH), monitor hazard control and safe work, and introduce new methods of work. On the other hand, the remaining four elements are seen as not being as crucial to several major industrial sectors.
Novelty - It is seen to have a positive significance if viewed comprehensively. Disclosing the results of a study can provide a benchmark for other companies to compare their own practices and performance against. Additionally, it is necessary to conduct more comprehensive research, particularly regarding the employees' perspectives and their involvement in implementing and improving workplace safety practices. The current study only considered the employer’s viewpoint, as the safety personnel represents their interests.

Type of Paper: Empirical
JEL Classification: J24, J28, J81 & Q50
Keywords: Post-Pandemic COVID-19; Workplace Safety Culture; Hazard Control; Preparedness Plan; Standards of Procedures (SOP); Resilient Workplace; Sustainable Workplace
Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Hassam, S.F; Esa, M.M; Akbar, J; Hassan, N.D. (2023). Building a Resilient and Sustainable Workplace: A Post-Pandemic Hazard Control and Preparedness Plan in Malaysia, J. Mgt. Mkt. Review, 8(1), 09 – 16. https://doi.org/10.35609/jmmr.2023.8.1(2)