Objectives  The purpose of this study is to analyze the structural relationships among pre-service early childhood teachers' satisfaction of major, job performance efficacy, and career maturity, and to analyze the moderating effect of ego-resilience.
Methods  This study analyzed the correlation between the variables based on the results of a survey of 191 students enrolled in the department of early childhood education in the 3-year university in the Gyeonggi region, and a structural equation model was applied to grasp the relationship characteristics. For moderating effect analysis, multi-group structural equation modeling was applied to verify the difference by non-metric variables.
Results  First, there was a significant correlation between satisfaction of major, job performance efficacy, career maturity, and ego-resilience. Second, satisfaction of major was found to have a direct effect on job performance efficacy and career maturity, respectively, and job performance efficacy was found to have a direct effect on career maturity. In addition, satisfaction of major was found to have an indirect effect on career maturity through job performance efficacy as a medium. Third, for groups with high ego-resilience, satisfaction of major had a positive effect on career maturity, but did not affect job performance efficacy. Job performance efficacy was found to have a positive effect on career maturity. On the other hand, for groups with low ego-resilience, satisfaction of major was found to have a positive effect on both career maturity and job performance efficacy, and have a positive effect on career maturity through job performance efficacy as a medium. That is, in the results of analyzing the moderating effect of ego-resilience, it was confirmed that only the effect of satisfaction of major on career maturity had a moderating effect.
Conclusions  Career education for pre-service early childhood teachers in teacher training institutions should be conducted with content and methods that can substantially increase satisfaction of major and job performance efficacy, and in addition, it means that psychological diagnosis and counseling support for improving ego-resilience are also important.