Abstract
Introduction
All businesses that deal directly with clients need to observe ethics, but in the nursing profession due to its nature, compliance with professional ethics becomes more necessary. On the other hand, nurses face tensions and difficult conditions in their daily work environment. Resilience is one of the most important abilities of human beings, which in difficult conditions causes effective adaptation to stress-causing factors. Therefore, the relationship between resilience and professional ethics becomes important.

The aim of the study
The present study was conducted to investigate the relationship between resilience and professional ethics in nurses of Shahid Ganji Hospital, Borazjan 2022–2023.

Methods
The current study is a cross-sectional descriptive-analytical study. The study environment was Shahid Ganji Hospital in Borazjan, Bushehr, Iran. The research method of the current study was census, so all 400 nurses of this hospital were invited to participate in the study. Finally, 340 of them were included in the study based on the inclusion criteria. Data collection tools included a demographic information form, Connor-Davidson questionnaire, and Cadozier professional ethics questionnaire. Data analysis was done using SPSS version 22 software.

Results
Most of the participants were between 25 and 30 years old. The average overall score of resilience and professional ethics of nurses participating in the study was 64.1 ± 16.3 and 34.3 ± 9.4, respectively. No significant difference was observed between the demographic characteristics of nurses with resilience and professional ethics. The Spearman correlation coefficient indicated a statistically significant and inverse relationship between professional ethics and resilience levels (r = -0.265, P < 0.001).

Conclusion
The present study demonstrated a significant and inverse relationship between professional ethics and resilience among nurses. Furthermore, professional ethics were at a moderate level, while resilience was at a good level. Therefore, it is recommended that enhancing professional ethics skills through the organization of educational workshops for nurses should be considered by nursing managers.
