Objectives  The purpose of this study is to develop and validate the resilience measurement for elementary school students. Methods  First, basic items were prepared through literature review and interview with elementary school teachers, and then preliminary tool were constructed through expert review about basic items. And then preliminary survey was conducted for 184 elementary school students in grades 3rd~6th. Based on the results of the survey, an exploratory factor analysis was conducted to identify the factors of resilience. After that, the main survey was conducted for 263 students with the items that factor structure was confirmed. The validity of the scale was confirmed by conducting a confirmatory factor analysis on the survey results. In addition, reliability and official validity were checked for a scale of final 24 items. Results  As a result of the analysis, the resilience scale of elementary school students found to be two-dimensional 8 factors. There are four factors in the dimension of individual internal characteristics: self-efficacy, positiveness, initiative, and request for help. There are four factors in the dimension of external protection factors: teacher support, peer support, parental support, and social ties. As a result of checking the model fit, TLI was .918, CFI was .928, and RMSEA was .054, all of model fits satisfy the criteria. As a result of checking the reliability, factor’s Cronbach's α was in the range of .692 to .868, and the overall Cronbach's α was as high as .915. Confirming the official validity of the test, It showed a high positive correlation of .711 between this scale and the school adaptation scale for late-school-age children, and a negative correlation of -.501 with the children's emotional and behavioral problem scale. In addition, this study presented three-step criteria to confirm the level of resilience. Conclusions  This study is meaningful because it developed and validated an elementary school students' resilience scale involving personal internal characteristics and external protective factors. And it is meaningful that it provided a reliable scale by developing the scale through a scientific procedure. It is expected that the scale will contribute to resilience research and be used as useful for elementary student education.