Abstract
The world meets poly crises in climate, pandemic, energy, food, human rights, and migration; hot and cold wars have come in Europe and other regions. The scope of the tasks becomes unprecedented, and their complexity demands high-level skill sets and teaching culture. Education moves into epicentres of the fight for better sustainability and resilience. The United National Sustainable Development Goals Four (SDG4) supposes allocating and diligently using several trillion US dollars for the next decades. The ambitious goals drive the educational system to be at a decent level regarding outcome and process. Saving gratitude to functions of a fundamental human right, a public good, gender equality, and an absolute right to education for all, the author urges that high-quality education is the priority because it will help society to cope with a new level of challenges and even existential threats the climate-like. The article describes the methodology and the importance of soft-hard skills for teaching and learning. The secondary-based sources research illustrates practical results regarding the educational process. The Triple Bottom Line principle (Planet, Profit, People) encompasses many disciplines engaging the main aspects of sustainability and resiliency and climate change for the university curricula in a coherent way. The article considers future trends in high education and case studies connected with the European Green Deal, environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reporting and practical aspects of Green Growth and De-Growth Theory. The Quality of Education reflects the regulator’s requirements and social and personal expectations. Life-long learning becomes a norm. The authors consider university products, processes and platforms through the lens of future trends, threats and opportunities. In times of turbulence, the results obtained through students’ upskilling and reskilling programs should fit the demands of new jobs, technologies, and financial mechanisms.