Residents of Puerto Rico have repeatedly experienced adverse events over the past five years including Hurricanes Irma and Maria in 2017, earthquakes in 2019-2020, Hurricane Fiona in 2022, sociopolitical unrest, a deep economic crisis, and the COVID-19 pandemic (including strict lockdown protocols). Higher psychological resilience, or the ability to “bounce back” after adversity, has been associated with better cardiovascular health in other contexts. One potential mechanism for this relationship is that higher resilience may contribute to engaging in healthier behaviors, such as higher diet quality, more physical activity, and healthier sleep duration and quality, as well as less smoking and drinking. However, such relationships have not yet been explored in this population. We cross-sectionally surveyed 1,240 adults in Puerto Rico in 2019-2022, with recruitment both before and during the COVID-19 pandemic, as part of the Puerto Rico Observational Study of Psychosocial, Environmental, and Chronic Disease Trends (PROSPECT). Participants responded to the Brief Resilience Scale (BRS) and Brief Resilient Coping Scale (BCS). Diet was assessed with a food frequency questionnaire and diet quality was defined by the Alternate Healthy Eating Index (AHEI). Physical activity was measured via the Harvard Alumni Activity Survey. We also collected data on average hours of sleep, quality of sleep, alcohol intake, and tobacco use. Logistic regression models estimated the odds ratios (OR, 95% CI) for following each healthy behavior by established categories of resilience (high and medium vs. low), adjusted for sociodemographic factors and co-morbidities. Of the sample, 39% (452 out of 1175) and 73% (851 out of 1170) were classified with high resilience and coping using the BRS and BCS, respectively. Adults with high resilience (vs. low) on the BRS had twice the odds [OR: 2.01, 95% CI: 1.22, 3.29] of reporting healthy sleep hours (7-8 hours/night compared to either 6 or fewer/night or 9 or more/night). High resilience was also associated with higher odds of being in the upper AHEI tertile (better diet quality) [OR: 1.61 (0.97, 2.68)], and having moderate or heavy physical activity [OR: 1.54 (1.04, 2.29) compared to sedentary or light activity]. These associations persisted when further adjusting for mental health disorders, perceived stress, and social support. Moreover, the relationships were stronger among participants interviewed during the COVID-19 pandemic, suggesting that psychological resilience may be particularly relevant during an ongoing stressor. No significant associations were noted between resilience and tobacco or alcohol use. Given Puerto Rico’s susceptibility to adverse events, seeking to improve population resilience in this and similarly vulnerable populations may lead to better health over the life course.