Summary

Despite being among the most important habitat‐forming organisms in temperate seas almost nothing is known about the demography of many algal species. This limits our ability to understand the effects of global and local stressors and to predict future trends under ongoing environmental change, which in turn hinders conservation actions.
Cystoseira species develop important forest‐like assemblages along the sublittoral zone in the Mediterranean Sea. In this study we investigated the natural population dynamics and resilience patterns of a deep‐water brown and canopy‐forming macroalga, Cystoseira zosteroides. We used density‐dependent and stochastic matrix models to estimate its basic life‐history and compare it with other relevant habitat‐forming marine (brown algae) and terrestrial (plants) species. We also evaluated the consequences of increasing the disturbances caused by storms and the impact of lost fishing gear, and their interaction, on C. zosteroides population dynamics.
The population dynamics of C. zosteroides showed similar patterns to terrestrial long‐lived species such as shrubs and trees, with high survival due to their investment in structural biomass. Our data and models suggest that this species is able to buffer mortality pulses by increasing the number of recruits (and probably recruit survival) due to the new space liberated and, therefore, lower intraspecific competition. Nevertheless, when storm disturbances were more frequent than once every 50 years, their populations collapsed, and this effect worsened when several stressors acted simultaneously.
Our results improve our understanding about the demography of algal forests, and highlight the fact that increases in local and global stressors may erode the resilience of macroalgae, resulting in a loss of structural complexity in the benthic communities of temperate seas.
Synthesis. Our findings reveal that deep‐water C. zosteroides forests display slow population dynamics, similar to terrestrial perennials and trees. The increase in disturbance frequencies due to global and local stressors and their interaction will cause the decline of underwater macroalgal forests and may induce profound changes in their population and community dynamics.

