Abstract
Lodz is a post-industrial city in central Poland, the third largest in terms of population and with the largest area of downtown districts in the country. The regeneration of historical districts is one of the main challenges of the local urban policy here, as in many other post-industrial cities. Urban regeneration is understood as cohesive changes implemented in terms of social, economic and spatial conditions on degraded areas, according to mechanisms introduced by the Urban Renewal Act. Another consideration is climate change, which requires an in-depth approach to design objectives so that they include certain solutions increasing the city’s resilience to climatic events. In accordance with the European Union’s policy, in 2013, the Polish Council of Ministers adopted the Strategic Adaptation Plan for sectors and areas sensitive to climate changes until 2020, looking forward to 2030. The implementation of this plan was entrusted to the Ministry of the Environment, in partnership with 44 cities with a population of over 100,000 residents, including Lodz. The city’s adaptation plan to climate changes until 2030 indicates that the most vulnerable areas of the city are those of high-intensity residential development. These areas are particularly vulnerable to the phenomena of urban heat islands, urban flooding, storms, and smog. The article shows the planning assumptions for the part of the centre called Nowa Dzielnica (New District). It is an interesting example of implementing local spatial policy at district scale, but also on a much larger scale than usually adopted in local plans. The Nowa Dzielnica downtown section was described in a sequence of four local land use plans. This constitutes an example of spatial management at local government level, which may define the direction of changes for downtown districts in other post-industrial cities. It serves as a good example of implementing changes for centres where both urban regeneration and resilience urban planning constitute important elements of urban policy.