Objectives  As the number of college graduating students increases year by year, the problem of employment dif-ficulties of graduating students has become increasingly prominent, followed by psychological changes resulting in career decision-making anxiety. From the perspective of educational psychology, this study explores the influ-ence of normal university graduating students’ psychological resilience on career decision-making anxiety and the mediating effect of coping styles, and finds out the influencing factors of career decision-making anxiety, so as to put forward coping styles to alleviate normal university graduating students’ career decision-making anxiety.
Methods  The study used quantitative method to analyze the relationship between psychological resilience and career decision-making anxiety among 469 soon-to-be Chinese normal graduating students. SPSS 25.0 stat-istical software was used for descriptive statistics, one-way ANOVA and correlation analysis. By using AMOS 24.0 software, structural equation models are established to analyze path coefficients and mediating effects.
Results  The psychological resilience and the career decision-making anxiety of normal graduating students are generally at a moderate level, with significant differences in demographic variables such as gender, and student cadre experience. There are the significant negative correlation between psychological resilience and career deci-sion-making anxiety. The mediating effect test shows that the psychological resilience of college graduating stu-dents can indirectly affect career decision-making anxiety through (positive and negative) coping styles. Coping styles (positive and negative coping style) have a partial mediating effect between psychological resilience and ca-reer decision-making anxiety.
Conclusions  Psychological resilience and coping styles of normal university graduating students are closely re-lated to career decision-making anxiety. Psychological resilience can directly affect career decision-making anxi-ety, but also indirectly affect career decision-making anxiety through (positive and negative) coping styles.