OBJECTIVES/SPECIFIC AIMS: The aim of the present study is to explore the relationships between resilience, pain catastrophizing, and functional outcomes in pre-and post-operative TKR patients. The primary outcome is the ability of the Brief Resilience Scale (BRS) to predict function using the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score Joint Replacement (KOOS, JR.) and overall health on the Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System Global Health (PROMIS GH). METHODS/STUDY POPULATION: Recruited patients will provide informed consent during in-person office visits. At the pre-surgery intake appointment, patients will provide demographic information and complete baseline questionnaires assessing resilience, pain catastrophizing, knee stiffness, pain, and function, and impression of overall health. In-person or electronic follow-up assessments will be administered post-surgery at 6-week, 3-month, and 6-month appointments. RESULTS/ANTICIPATED RESULTS: We aim to recruit 150 patients for this study. We do not expect a difference in sociodemographic characteristics of the patient sample. P-values will be based on t-tests and correlations calculated by comparing only non-missing values. Each outcome measure will be examined at each time point and trajectories will be calculated to determine the change in each outcome over time. Using latent class growth modeling we will examine individual change over time for each outcome (BRS, PCS, PROMIS GH, and KOOS JR.), and the association of resilience and pain with change in function (KOOS, JR. total score) and overall health (PROMIS GH). DISCUSSION/SIGNIFICANCE OF IMPACT: To our knowledge, this is the only known study that will compare resilience, pain catastrophizing and longitudinal health outcomes in a single paradigm. Results will hopefully inform the design and implementation of future studies that will assess the impact of preoperative treatment of vulnerable patients. The ultimate goal is to improve functional recovery by using pre-identified psychological constructs as intervention points. Ideally, the same measures would be implemented, however, details of this plan will be established following completion of this study.