With the ever-growing frequency of natural catastrophe occurrences such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, etc., the idea of resilient microgrids (MGs) has attracted more attention than before. Providing the opportunity for a multi-carrier energy supply after a natural catastrophe can lessen power losses and improve power resiliency and reliability. Critical loads within the MG can be prioritized and restored in the shortest possible time based on the condition of the network after the damaging occurrence by considering the energy hub (EH) systems and the optimum design and allocation of these multi-carrier systems. To this end, this paper aims to address the resilience framework in MGs considering sets of water and EHs (WEHs) consisting of CHP (combined heat and power), a boiler, energy storage, and a desalination unit. This study focused on considering an effective resilient scheme to restore critical loads in a short period after a natural catastrophe when the MG experiences an unpredictable event. By applying the idea of WEHs, there would be a chance of restoring the system by using two sets of WEH systems in the appropriate islanded points to restore the system and critical loads of electricity, heat, and water. For this purpose, different scenarios were considered for assessing the resiliency of the system against a natural catastrophic event that causes serious damage to the network by analyzing the energy-not-supplied (ENS) factor. Moreover, the allocated WEHs can adequately supply the electrical, water, and thermal demand loads throughout the day after the natural catastrophe. To mitigate the unforeseen variations in the renewable sources, a battery is located in the WEH, which can attend to the optimal scheduling effectively. A scenario-based method is also introduced to improve the resiliency of MGs in an uncertain environment such as electrical, heat, and water stochastic demands. The appropriate efficiency of the offered model was considered on a modified IEEE test system.