Physical resilience, defined as the ability to resist and respond to challenges and return to homeostasis, has been postulated to be a determinant of healthspan and lifespan. To test this premise, we have begun to optimize a standardized, clinically relevant battery of resilience challenges, including anesthesia and cisplatin chemotherapy, and recovery outcome measures in younger (2–3 month) and older (26–29 month) mice. We have also started to test whether interventions shown to increase murine lifespan‐acarbose, rapamycin, and 17a‐estradiol‐impact the resilience of older mice.Our preliminary data demonstrate that younger mice (n = 10) have faster dorsal to sternal recumbence recovery time compared to older mice (n = 8) (39 ± 1 sec vs. 67 ± 6 sec, p < 0.001) following a 5‐minute 4% isoflurane anesthesia challenge. In response to a 5‐day cisplatin (2 mg/kg/day) challenge, both younger (n=5) and older (n=4) mice lost a significant percent of their baseline body weight (younger mice −10.6 ± 0.8% and older mice −13.2 ± 2.1%, p = 0.26), however, older mice failed to regain body weight 11 days after the challenge (younger mice −0.9 ± 0.8% and older mice −9.8 ± 0.8%, p < 0.01). Changes in body weight in younger and older mice were largely attributable to the loss/regain of fat mass. Interestingly, 8 weeks of either acarbose (1,000 ppm) or 17α‐estradiol (14.4 ppm) administration to older female mice improved body weight recovery after the cisplatin challenge, while rapamycin (14 ppm) had no appreciable effect.Our preliminary results demonstrate that younger mice, as expected, have greater resilience than older mice to clinically relevant physical challenges. The age at which physical resilience starts to decline requires further investigation. Our early observations suggest interventions that extend health‐ and lifespan may impact resilience in older mice. Ultimately, a standardized battery of resilience challenges may provide a new framework for testing and translating interventions that target the fundamental biology of aging.Support or Funding InformationThis work was supported by grant AG52958 from the National Institutes of Health.This abstract is from the Experimental Biology 2018 Meeting. There is no full text article associated with this abstract published in The FASEB Journal.