 9044  Background: Because a cancer diagnosis may be regarded as a potentially traumatic event with untoward consequences, much research has focussed on negative aspects of cancer diagnosis and treatment, emphasising psychological outcomes. A recent paradigm shift recognises that such a psycho-pathological approach discounts the human capacity for resilience "the ability to maintain relatively stable functioning following an aversive life event" (Bonanno GA Curr Direct in Psychol Science 2005 14(3) 135). Predictors of resilience in women who recovered uneventfully from surgical and adjuvant treatment for early stage breast cancer were investigated in a prospective study. Methods: Validated self-report measures of mood, somatic symptoms, temperament, illness attitudes, and social support were completed post-surgery. Clinical, tumor and treatment details were recorded. At end treatment and subsequently at 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months, self-report measures of mood and somatic symptoms were completed. Resilience was defined as: no evidence of protracted psychological or somatic distress in the 12 months following treatment completion. Identified resilient and non-resilient groups were compared and predictors sought by logistic regression. Results: Of 218 women evaluated, 106 (49%) were classified as "resilient." They either reported no clinically significant psychological or other distress post-surgery (34%) and 12months following adjuvant treatment or recovered promptly (15%) and remained well. There were no significant differences in age (52 years); marital status; tumor size; treatment; treatment toxicity (nadir hemoglobin and neutrophil count) or mortality at 5 years post treatment (8 confirmed deaths in each group). Logistic regression identified low neuroticism (temperament or personality trait) as the most significant predictor of resilience. Conclusions: These findings suggest that without any intervention almost half the women treated for breast cancer adapt well to diagnosis and treatment. These outcomes warrant further research, to provide further insight into how individuals cope with major illness and to facilitate development of programs to aid those in whom outcomes are protracted. 