Abstract

Background
Research on hospital resilience is scarce and favours top-down approaches, and evidence from the field and operational levels is lacking. The aim of our study was to understand the mechanisms of hospital and individual resilience experienced by staff from a tertiary hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal, after the 2015 Earthquake.


Methods
We conducted semi-structured interviews with different professionals in May 2018; undertook a deductive thematic analysis of hospital resilience using the framework proposed by Bruneau et al; and used an inductive thematic analysis for individual resilience.


Results
The earthquake caused different types of burden to the hospital and individuals. Redundancy was mostly influenced by linkages with lower levels of care. Resourcefulness consisted mostly of spontaneous adaptations, with task shifting the most important for human resources. External provision of resources enabled the transfer of part of the burden but precipitated accountability-related challenges. The hospital's robustness depended not only on its physical resistance, but also on the functional capacity to provide life saving care, although routine services were interrupted and quality decreased. The hospital ensured rapidity in providing life saving care to the victims and re-start of routine activities, but recovery to a sense of normality was more conflicting and dependent on the individual. Individual resilience was dictated by safety, a sense of meaningfulness, self and external appreciation, and community support.


Conclusions
Our study shows the importance of staff experiences to improve hospital resilience. Disaster plans should acknowledge the role of task shifting, and basic care should be taught to all, not just those with clinical functions. Health workers are extremely overwhelmed during disaster response, and disaster plans should engage staff at an early stage to ensure they feel safe and sufficiently supported.


Key messages
Our work is one of the first to study hospital resilience with field data from qualitative interviews with hospital staff. Hospital resilience strategies should also address individual resilience of hospital staff.
