Abstract
          Objective The removable partial denture must keep health of the remaining teeth and the supporting tissues through the distribution of chewing forces on the abutment teeth and alveolar process.This study aimed to evaluate stress distribution with canines-supported mandibular overdenture retained by two different attachment types: ball attachments or resilient telescopic crowns.
          Materials and Methods Two 3-dimensional finite element models consisting of the cortical mandible bone, cancellous mandible bone, oral mucosa, canines, periodontal ligaments, the two attachment types, and overdenture were simulated. The models were imported into the mathematical analysis software Ansys Workbench V 15.0. All materials were considered to be homogeneous, isotropic, and linearly elastic. A vertical bilateral load of 120 N was applied to the central fossa of the first molars. The von Mises stress was calculated for canines, cortical, and cancellous bone.
          Results The maximum von Mises stress of the ball attachments model was 35.61, 4.28, 7.82, and 1.29 MPa for canines, cortical alveolar bone of canines, cortical alveolar bone at the distal end of the overdenture, and cancellous alveolar bone of canines, respectively. The maximum von Mises stress of the resilient telescopic crowns model was 39.22, 4.74, 7.06, and 1.05 MPa for canines, cortical alveolar bone of canines, cortical alveolar bone at the distal end of the overdenture, and cancellous alveolar bone of canines, respectively.
          Conclusion Resilient telescopic crowns distribute the stresses between canines, alveolar bone of canines, and overdenture supporting alveolar bone. Ball attachments transfer less stress to the canines and cortical alveolar bone of the canines, but more stress to the cancellous alveolar bone of canines and alveolar bone at distal end of the overdenture. Resilient telescopic crowns are preferred over ball attachment when the abutment teeth have good periodontal support.