The physical composition and stress state of soil-rock mixture (SRM) materials have a crucial influence on their mechanical properties, and play a vital role in improving the performance of subgrade. To reveal the resilient behavior and mesostructure evolution of SRM materials, triaxial tests and discrete element method (DEM) numerical analysis have been carried out. In the triaxial test section, the mechanical response of SRM materials was investigated by preparing samples under different stress states and physical states and conducting triaxial tests on samples. Simultaneously, a new irregular particle modeling method was developed and applied to the discrete element modeling process to analyze the mesostructure evolution of SRM materials under cycling loading. First, a cyclic triaxial test of SRM material is performed on the SRM material, and the effects of bulk stress, octahedral shear stress and rock content on the resilient modulus of the SRM material are analyzed. It is revealed that the resilient modulus increases with increasing bulk stress and rock content, and decreases with increasing octahedral shear stress. Based on a new resilient modulus prediction model, the relationships among the rock content, stress state and resilient modulus are established. Then, based on an improved DEM modeling method, a discrete element model of the SRM is established, and the influence of rock content on coordination number and mesostructure evolution of the SRM is analyzed. The results show that in SRM materials, the increase of crushed rock changes the mesostructure of the SRM material. With the increase of rock content, the internal contact force changes from “between soil and rock” to “between rocks”, and the skeleton formed in the rocks gradually develops overall stiffness. Under the condition of low stress, the anisotropy of the SRM material is mainly caused by the shape and grade distribution of crushed rock. The induced anisotropy caused by the change of stress state has little effect on its mechanical behavior, which may lead to the greater dispersion of multiple SRM test results.