BackgroundIt remains unclear how fear of COVID-19 and resilience are related to psychological distress based on occupations among healthcare workers (HCWs) in hospitals treating patients with COVID-19. We conducted a survey on the mental health of HCWs during the COVID-19 pandemic to determine the relationship between factors such as fear of COVID-19 and resilience as well as mental distress in each occupation of HCWs.MethodsWe conducted a web-based survey among HCWs at seven hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in Japan from December 24, 2020 to March 31, 2021. A total of 634 participants were analyzed, and information regarding their socio-demographic characteristics and employment status was collected. Several psychometric measures were used, including the Kessler’s Psychological Distress Scale (K6), the fear of COVID-19 Scale (FCV-19S), and the Resilience Scale (RS14). Factors related to psychological distress were identified by logistic regression analysis. The association between job title and psychological scales was examined by one-way ANOVA, and t-tests were conducted to examine the association between the FCV-19S and hospital initiatives.ResultsIt was found that nurses and clerical workers were associated with psychological distress without considering FCV-19S or RS14; in a model that included FCV-19S, FCV-19S was associated with psychological distress, but job title was not; when RS14 was considered, resilience was protective. In terms of occupation, FCV-19S was lower among physicians and higher among nurses and clerical workers, while RS14 was higher among physicians and lower among other occupations. Having access to in-hospital consultation regarding infection control as well as to psychological and emotional support was associated with lower FCV-19S.ConclusionBased on our findings, we can conclude that the level of mental distress differed by occupation and the differences in the fear of COVID-19 and resilience were important factors. In order to provide mental healthcare for HCWs during a pandemic, it is important to create consultation services that enable employees to discuss their concerns. In addition, it is important to take steps to strengthen the resilience of HCWs in preparation for future disasters.