Introduction. Recently, interest in the problem of educational migration has been steadily growing. The most active and dynamically developing group of modern youth is considered to be the category of educational migrants - young people moving to other regions and countries to obtain higher education. The study involved 382 people aged 18-22 years old. In the course of the study of resilience and psychological well-being, the features of personal resources of different groups of educational migrants were identified, the features of young people's perception of difficult life situations were described, and information was obtained on the general satisfaction and dissatisfaction of respondents with the period under evaluation, as well as data on the prevalence of various situations among educational migrants.Purpose. To investigate the psychological characteristics of students in the conditions of educational migration.Materials and Methods. The following methods were chosen as the main tools of the study: Salvatore Muddy's "Hardiness" test (in the original - "Hardiness Survey", 1997) adapted by D. A. Leontiev and E. I. Rasskazova (2006); the "Psychological Well-Being Scale" questionnaire by C. A. Leontiev and E. I. I. Rasskazova (2006); Questionnaire "Psychological Well-Being Scale" by C. Ryff (in the original - "Ryff Psychological Well-Being Scale"). Ryff (in the original - "The scales of psychological well-being", 1998) adapted by N. N. Lepeshinsky (2007).Results.  The study obtained data on the prevalence of various difficult life situations in the samples of students with different migration experiences. They show that the greatest significance and subjective complexity for them were difficulties with studies and experiences related to fulfilment and well-being. Students who travelled to another country to study are much more inclined to exercise control over their life events and get involved in them, are ready to take risks and to act in situations of uncertainty.Discussion. Significant differences in the interrelationships of personal resources in groups of young people overcoming difficult life situations with different degrees of success have been revealed.