AbstractThe purpose of this study was to explore plasma metabolite levels in young healthy pigs and their potential association with disease resilience and estimate genetic and phenotypic correlation with the change in lymphocyte concentration following disease challenge. Plasma samples were collected from 968 healthy nursery pigs over 15 batches at an average of 28 ± 3.23 d of age. Forty-four metabolites were identified and quantified by nuclear magnetic resonance. Pigs were then introduced into a natural disease challenge barn, and were classified into four groups based on the growth rate of each animal in the grow-to-finish phase (GFGR) and treatment rate (TR): resilient (RES), average (MID), susceptible (SUS), and dead (pigs that died before harvest). Blood samples were collected from all pigs before and 2 wk after disease challenge and complete blood count was determined. Environmental enrichment (inedible point source objects) was provided for half of the pigs in seven batches (N = 205) to evaluate its impact on resilience and metabolite concentrations. Concentration of all metabolites was affected by batch, while entry age affected the concentration of 16 metabolites. The concentration of creatinine was significantly lower for pigs classified as “dead” and “susceptible” when compared to “average” (P &lt; 0.05). Pigs that received enrichment had significantly lower concentrations of six metabolites compared with pigs that did not receive enrichment (P ≤ 0.05). Both, group classification and enrichment affected metabolites that are involved in the same pathways of valine, leucine, and isoleucine biosynthesis and degradation. Resilient pigs had higher increase in lymphocyte concentration after disease challenge. The concentration of plasma l-α-aminobutyric acid was significantly negatively genetically correlated with the change in lymphocyte concentration following challenge. In conclusion, creatinine concentration in healthy nursery pigs was lower in pigs classified as susceptible or dead after disease challenge, whilst l-α-aminobutyric may be a genetic biomarker of lymphocyte response after pathogen exposure, and both deserve further investigation. Batch, entry age, and environmental enrichment were important factors affecting the concentration of metabolites and should be taken into consideration in future studies.