A MedRadio RF receiver integrated circuit for implanted and wearable biomedical devices must be resilient to the out-of-band (OOB) orthogonal frequency division modulation (OFDM) blocker. As the OFDM is widely adopted for various broadcasting and communication systems in the ultra-high frequency (UHF) band, the selectivity performance of the MedRadio RF receiver can severely deteriorate by the second-order intermodulation (IM2) distortion induced by the OOB OFDM blocker. An analytical investigation shows how the OFDM-induced IM2 distortion power can be translated to an equivalent two-tone-induced IM2 distortion power. It makes the OFDM-induced IM2 analysis and characterization process for a MedRadio RF receiver much simpler and more straightforward. A MedRadio RF receiver integrated circuit with a significantly improved resilience to the OOB IM2 distortion is designed in 65 nm complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS). The designed RF receiver is based on low-IF architecture, comprising a low-noise amplifier, single-to-differential transconductance stage, quadrature passive mixer, trans-impedance amplifier (TIA), image-rejecting complex bandpass filter, and fractional phase-locked loop synthesizer. We describe design techniques for the IM2 calibration through the gate bias tuning at the mixer, and the dc offset calibration that overcomes the conflict with the preceding IM2 calibration through the body bias tuning at the TIA. Measured results show that the OOB carrier-to-interference ratio (CIR) performance is significantly improved by 4–11 dB through the proposed IM2 calibration. The measured maximum tolerable CIR is found to be between −40.2 and −71.2 dBc for the two-tone blocker condition and between −70 and −77 dBc for the single-tone blocker condition. The analytical and experimental results of this work will be essential to improve the selectivity performance of a MedRadio RF receiver against the OOB OFDM-blocker-induced IM2 distortion and, thus, improve the robustness of the biomedical devices in harsh wireless environments in the MedRadio and UHF bands.