The COVID-19 pandemic has led to thinking about the response to sudden-onset disasters, for which the transportation resilience of urban areas is crucial. The purpose of paper is to provide a graded assessment of urban transportation resilience to help city managers target policies and plans. Wuhan, the first city in China to be severely hit by COVID-19, was selected as the case study for this research. Based on an extensive survey of the travel characteristics of residents in central urban areas, the concept of “travel mode shift” was combined to classify residents into four modes, including non-motorized conventional travel, non-motorized over-distance travel, motorized adaptable travel and motorized non-substitutable travel. The potential transportation stoppages in different levels of epidemic impact were then divided into three scenarios, corresponding to each of the city’s three levels of transportation resilience. The concept of MWD (Maximum Willingness Distance) in active travel mode was further developed, which was divided into WMWD (Walking Maximum Willingness Distance) and RMWD (Riding Maximum Willingness Distance). Finally, a hierarchical assessment model of urban transportation resilience is developed based on the MWD distance threshold. Besides, the average income level of urban residents was also included in the assessment system. The following research conclusions were drawn: (1) The degree of transportation resilience in Wuhan showed an “S-curve” relationship with RMWD, with thresholds at RMWD = 2.5 km, 11 km and 23 km respectively. (2) The resilience of transportation in the suburbs of the city was weaker than in the city center, and the gap between the two increases as the RMWD increases, but the share of motorized transportation in short distance trips in the city center was still higher than desirable. (3) The upper-income groups in the city had more flexible travel options, while the lower income groups were less resilient to travel. Based on the results of the study, it is recommended that city managers can identify areas of low resilience and critical distance thresholds that may lead to sudden changes in transportation resilience in the event of a sudden disaster. This will lead to the development of improved policies. The special needs of socially disadvantaged groups should also be taken more into account in this process.