Exploring the interaction and coupling effects within the digital economy and eco-economic system resilience in urban agglomeration areas is conducive to promoting high-quality sustainable urban development. Based on the coupling effect perspective, we construct a coupling coordination and development system with multiple elements, information, and interaction flow. The JJJ urban agglomeration from 2010 to 2019 was used as the study sample. The spatiotemporal differences and spatial effects of the coupled coordination were evaluated by combining the tools of combined weight model, coupled coordination model, nuclear density estimation, and exploratory spatial data analysis. The main results can be summarized as follows. (1) From 2010 to 2019, the digital economic index and eco-economic system resilience index of JJJ urban agglomeration maintained an upward trend, and the time series characteristics of the two sides showed a significant positive correlation. Additionally, the overall digital economic development index is better than the resilience development index of the urban eco-economic system. (2) In terms of the type of coupling coordination, the JJJ region has experienced a dynamic evolution process from the imbalance in 2010 to the primary coordination in 2019. The coupling and coordinated development levels of Beijing and Tianjin are obviously better than those of Hebei Province as a whole. (3) The coupling coordination of the system shows certain characteristics of spatial agglomeration and distribution. The overall spatial pattern presents a development pattern with Beijing and Tianjin as the core, and the gap between the north and the south is gradually narrowing. (4) Spatial spillovers and diffusion effects are evident. However, the influential factors have significant differences in the coupling and coordinated development between this region and neighboring regions. The results may provide theoretical support for the continuous improvement of ecological environment quality and green sustainable economic efficiency in urban agglomeration. It provides decision-making reference for promoting regional synergistic development strategy and optimizing spatial pattern of regional integration.