 24  Background: Inpatient medical oncology nursing staff members often care for seriously ill patients with complex needs, and are at particular risk for burn out. This qualitative study explored the experiences of registered nurses (RN) and nurse practitioners (NP) on an inpatient medical oncology unit. We identified factors influencing resiliency in caring for oncology inpatients on a daily basis. Methods: We conducted in-depth qualitative interviews with 24 RNs and 13 NPs working on an inpatient medical oncology unit at an academic medical center. A semi-structured interview guide was used to elicit perspectives on facilitators and barriers to resilience in caring for oncology patients. Content analysis was conducted to identify themes between RNs and NPs. Results: Both RNs and NPs described being emotionally affected by daily experiences with patient suffering and death. However, they commonly identified that relationships with patients at the end of life (EOL) were sources of profound inspiration; and they felt privileged to engage with patients during this significant phase of their lives. Factors that negatively impacted resilience included a) barriers to communicating with team members and patients about EOL issues, b) successions of acutely ill patients on the unit, and c) work-life balance issues in the context of intensive shift schedules. Following emotionally difficult days, staff found motivation to return to work the next day through: a) mutual understanding and support from unit coworkers, b) sense of connection to seriously ill patients and their families, and c) general perception of oncology nursing as part of one’s identity. Conclusions: Nursing staff were intrinsically motivated to connect with seriously ill patients and to provide meaningful EOL care. Connections with coworkers and patients/families and personal identification with the role of oncology nursing helped staff to return to work after emotionally difficult experiences on the unit. Results identify potential targets for intervention to increase resiliency, including increasing workplace cohesion, communication and support within the unique inpatient milieu. 