Introduction. Today’s crisis and stress conditions increase the number of cases of PTSD diagnosis and associated symptoms. Since mental health specialists are key workers in providing assistance in this context, they are now experiencing more intense mental work load than ever before. The personal characteristics of specialists and the occupational risks associated with empathic contact with patients who have experienced a traumatic event pose a certain danger to specialists and require special research attention. In this context, the need to prepare appropriate protocols, psychotechnologies and models of psychotherapeutic work to restore and develop resilience is highlighted.  Aim. The purpose of the article is to describe the main standpoints of the created psychotechnology of the development of resilience of mental health specialists and operationalization of its practical part, namely a model of psychotherapeutic assistance to mental health specialists for the development of resilience.  Results. The created psychotechnology for the development of resilience of mental health specialists contains developed theoretical, diagnostic and psychotherapeutic stages. The psychotherapeutic stage of psychotechnology of resilience of mental health specialists is created taking into account specific intervention strategies, principles of process organization and means (methods and techniques) that ensure the process of resilience development and is presented as a model of psychotherapeutic assistance to mental health specialists to develop resilience. The operationalization of the model allowed one to form the following scheme of strategic direction of psychotherapeutic assistance: resource vector <=> in-depth vector => behavioral vector. Each vector is provided with appropriate methods and techniques that help solve the problem of resilience development, as well as improve post-traumatic growth.  Conclusions. The model of psychotherapeutic work for the development of resilience of mental health specialists, based on an integrative approach using multimodal interventions, is proposed. The initial approbation of the model allowed to determine the scheme of strategic direction of psychotherapeutic interventions, «portrait of a resilient specialist», as well as important aspects for its further improvement.