As many customers stopped dining out during COVID-19, most restaurants suffered financially. Even after the pandemic, some customers remain wary of being in a crowded place and show resistance to eating out. Restaurants faced with customer resistance and a labor shortage started to adopt electronic devices to minimize human contact and were recognized as having safety protocols in place. Kiosks have gained popularity in the restaurant industry as they can help reduce interpersonal contact, save labor costs, streamline the ordering process, and increase customer satisfaction and loyalty. This study finds that self-service technologies (e.g., kiosks) can be an effective tool for restaurants to utilize in dealing with COVID-wary customers and to remain resilient. This study not only examines various kiosk attributes and their effect on the customers’ experience but also links them to potential revenue growth. By examining a comprehensive set of kiosk attributes, the objective of this study is to understand the role of kiosk attributes in creating a memorable experience for customers based on the concept of the experience economy. The data were collected from 408 restaurant patrons in South Korea who had used self-service technologies. Three analyses were performed using partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM), multigroup analysis (MGA), and importance–performance map analysis (IPMA) with SmartPLS 4. The findings are as follows: for male customers, assurance, customization, enjoyment, design, and functionality are considered important aspects of their experience. For female customers, design, enjoyment, and security are important factors in their experience. The finding suggests that males and females consider different attributes in evaluating the technology experience. Additionally, this study finds that a memorable experience with technology affects customers’ intention to revisit the restaurant, playing a mediating role between technology attributes and revisit intention. Lastly, this study finds distinct differences between males and females in their assessment of customization and design. The gender-based differences suggest that men and women assess kiosk technologies differently. Future research may be needed to further investigate the underlying causes of the differences.