Abstract: Background: Healthcare sector of Pakistan is complex and changing rapidly. This complex and transforming phase create more hurdles for employees especially for healthcare managers. During this transition phase, healthcare managers are burdened with more ncertainties and adversities. Managing under these circumstances is not an easy task as this requires frequent adaptations. One of the most important traits that can aid in these adaptations is resilience, which is ignored in healthcare management. Objectives: The first and main objective of the study is to assess the extent to which the healthcare managers are resilient. Secondly, to compare the resilience of public and private sector healthcare managers. At last, to assess the impact of gender, income and other demographic variables like age, socioeconomic status, marital status, education, designation, and work experience etc. Materials and Methods: It was a cross sectional study conducted at 13 different leading healthcare institutes of Karachi. These hospitals and healthcare services were divided broadly according to public and private sector categories. Employees were asked to complete structured questionnaire, a 25 item Connor Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC) and demographic characteristics. Data were collected from 438 healthcare managers working at tertiary care hospitals in Karachi. Results: Health managers at both sectors were found resilient, with mean score of public sector and private sector were 52.55 (SD± 15.05), and 50.74 (SD± 14.15) respectively although the relationship was found insignificant relationship. Income, experience, designation, and worksite variables were significantly associated with resilience while age, gender, working hours, marital & socioeconomic status were insignificant. Conclusion: In conclusion, the healthcare managers working in both public and private sector were found resilient. There was no significant difference found in resilience of male and female healthcare managers. In addition demographic variables like age, marital status, socioeconomic status, and working hours showed no significant relationship with resilience while designation, income, working experience, and worksite variables showed significant relationship with resilience.