Introduction:Vulnerable populations were the most impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This included those with underlying health conditions, self-employed, low-income, people with limited access to health care, and the elderly. To capture these lessons and identify resilience actions, the Health Emergency and Disaster Risk Management (Health EDRM) Framework was used to guide the application of the Public Health System Resilience Scorecard (Scorecard).Method:This study was conducted in Australia, Bangladesh, Japan, Slovenia, Turkey, and the United States. Participants included emergency professionals, doctors, nurses, environmental health specialists, researchers, and government officials. The Scorecard was used to rank the level of preparedness from 0-5 (5 the highest) for the public health system resilience indicators. Following the individual workshops, recommendations were collated and interpreted to develop consolidated priority actions.Results:The priority actions related to surge capacity, mental health, ecosystems, societal needs, and high-risk populations. To address surge capacity issues, determining whether existing disaster structures have the capacity to provide support for hospitals during patient surges. This could include services that enable telehealth and primary health care to support hospitals during a crisis. Mental health services at the local government level should be evaluated and awareness of ecosystem risks in urban and rural areas needs to increase. Strategies for achieving reciprocal trust are required to enable uptake of public health information, and the extent at which pre-existing chronic health issues are likely to exacerbate needs to be understood and addressed.Conclusion:This study revealed several areas for strengthening public health system resilience. Priority actions relate to addressing needs relating to surge capacity, mental health, ecosystems, societal needs, and high-risk populations. This serves as a framework for transforming public health systems to become more adaptive, flexible, and focused on enabling societies to function at the highest possible level when responding to a disaster or pandemics.