Background: Job burnout is among the most important determinants of employee productivity. Numerous factors affect the function of employees and burnout. Objectives: Based on the available studies on healthcare providers, resilience and burnout are directly related to employee productivity. This study aimed to investigate the effect of resilience training on job burnout in hospital staff. Methods: Forty-six hospital staff were divided into case and control groups (23 in each group) and enrolled in the present pre-and post-intervention study. Each group completed the pre-test to assess resilience and burnout based on the Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC) and Maslach Burnout Questionnaire (MBQ). The case group received six one-hour training sessions. During these sessions, some resilience and coping skills were provided. At the end of the sessions, the participants in both groups completed the resilience and burnout questionnaires. After one month, the staff filled in these questionnaires again, and the results of the questionnaires were compared before and after the intervention. The data were analyzed using descriptive statistics and Mann-Whitney and Kruskal-Wallis tests using SPSS version 19 software. Results: The mean age of study participants was 38.47 and 36 years in the case and control groups, respectively, and demographic features were not significantly different between the study groups. The total score of the burnout scale decreased after the intervention in the case group and increased in the control group. In addition, after the intervention, the mean score of the total burnout scale was significantly lower in the intervention group than in the control group. All subscales in the case group significantly decreased after the intervention, while all subscales increased in the control group. This increase was significant in the emotional exhaustion subscale in the control group. Only emotional exhaustion after the intervention was significantly reduced in the case group. The resilience score in the case group increased significantly one month after the intervention. Conclusions: Resilience training as 6 one-hour training sessions significantly improved job burnout, and health officials can use this training method to improve the health and function of employees.