Abstract
Previous woodland-grazing studies reported poor performance of young, growing goats and recommended for supplemental feed. However, not much is known about strategies to supplement lactating animals stocked in woodlands. The objective of this study was to evaluate the performance and resiliency against gastrointestinal (GI) parasites of lactating does and their kids stocked in woodlands with supplemental grazing or feedstuffs. The study was conducted in six woodland plots and adjacent silvopasture plots were used for supplemental grazing. Seventeen lactating Kiko does with their kids (33) were divided into two groups. Each group was assigned to separate sets of woodland plots and rotated among those plots throughout the study period. One group (Group 1) was allowed to supplemental grazing in adjacent silvopasture plots for 3-4 hours daily and another group (Group 2) was supplemented with ad libitum hay and corn (0.5% of metabolic weight). Animal performance data (live weight, FAMACHA score, and body condition score (BCS)) were collected at the beginning after a 5-day-adjustment period, fortnightly during the study, and at the end. Vegetation samples from woodland and silvopasture plots were collected and analyzed for biomass and quality (CP, ADF, NDF, TDN). Fecal samples were collected and analyzed for GI parasites from animals having FAMACHA score 3 and higher. Animal performance and forage quality data were analyzed using GLM procedure, forage biomass data using Mixed model, and fecal egg-count data using the non-parametric (NPAR1WAY) procedure in SAS 9.4. Silvopasture produced greater biomass (60%) with higher quality (p&lt; 0.0001) vs. woodland. Group-1 does showed better FAMACHA score and less prevalence of GI-parasite infestation vs. Group-2 does (p&lt; 0.05). Group-1 kids had lower coccidia count vs. Group-2 kids (p&lt; 0.05). In conclusion, supplemental grazing was better for resiliency against GI parasites in lactating does and young kids than supplemental feeding.