
Purpose
Resilience has been emphasised by researchers as a probable framework for overcoming challenging circumstances and fostering organisational innovation. Universities have had to shift to a blended learning system which includes online learning. Prior scholars have studied resilience as a reactive aspect which focuses on organisation's ability to bounce back from a downfall. This study aims to establish the antecedent role of resilience capacity which is a proactive ability to preparedly respond to a downfall.


Design/methodology/approach
The research adopts an explanatory study design to establish the hypothesised antecedent role of organisational resilience capacity in enhancing organisational innovation. Drawing a sample from Ugandan Universities, hierarchical regression was used to test the role of organisational resilience capacity on organisational innovation. The study also tested the influence of organisational characteristics of ownership, age and size on innovation.


Findings
The study findings show that the three dimensions of organisational resilience capacity (cognitive capacity, behavioural preparedness and contextual capacity) significantly enhance organisational innovation. The findings further reveal that ownership has a significant effect on innovation. The results show that organisational size and age do not influence innovation.


Practical implications
The study's conclusions help contemporary managers decide how to set up numerous strategic initiatives to activate organisational resilience towards innovation. To deal with disruption, organisations should use dependable innovation systems and best practices in a robust and adaptable way. Organisational managers ought to integrate the doctrines of resilience into various organisational activities such as training and development and simulation activities, so that organisational managers learn resilience skills to deal with environmental changes.


Originality/value
This research shows how the three dimensions of organisational resilience capacity (cognitive capacity, behavioural preparedness and contextual capacity) influence innovativeness since most studies have been directed to the aspect of resilience (which only focuses on ability to recover from a downfall) as opposed to resilience capacity that relates to the ability of an organisation to successfully absorb disruptive events that may endanger organisation survival, develop situation-specific remedies and eventually evolve in transformative activities. The study further intensively extends the body of knowledge by delving deeper into establishing the influence of the individual dimensions of resilience capacity on innovation.
