AbstractFuture communication networks use computing platforms i.e., data centers for enabling content access. The operation of data centers is evolving to meet new requirements such as reducing the operating cost. The use of data centers is recognized to have significant challenges due to high operating costs. The high operating costs arises due to the necessity of data center cooling. The cooling costs can be reduced by siting data centers in the underwater environment. In the underwater environment, data centers are cooled by freely available cold water. However, siting data centers in the underwater environment exposes them to risk from other underwater applications. The use of underwater data centers is susceptible to service loss due to the launch of missiles from submarines in defense applications. Underwater data centers are susceptible to service loss from the launch of missiles from submarines. Hence, it is necessary to design a network architecture that ensures continued service delivery when nuclear attacks occur. The presented research proposes a novel network architecture enabling service continuity in the underwater data center. The proposed architecture incorporates resiliency and comprises terrestrial and non–terrestrial data centers. The proposed network architecture incorporates redundancy and utilizes terrestrial and non-terrestrial data centers. In addition, the research presents a protocol enabling co-existence between underwater data centers and missile launching submarines used in defence applications. The research formulates and evaluates the operational duration, number of packets forwarding paths, and computing resource utilization as the metrics. Performance evaluation shows that the proposed network architecture improves the operational duration and computing resource utilization by an average of (27.7–71.5)% and (23.5–44.2)%, respectively. Furthermore, the proposed network architecture enables the realization of more resilient paths. The use of more resilient paths enhances packet transmission. Evaluation shows that the proposed network architecture enhances the number of resilient packets forwarding paths by (18.2–57.4)% on average.