Climate change has emerged as one of the major global environmental issues that greatly influence agricultural production and food security. To meet these emerging challenges of climate change, there is an urgent need for developing promising improved technologies for mitigating of combating the adverse effect of climate change. Climate changes have a direct impact on rainfed crops including pulses. Reduction in yields due to climate change is prominent, since pulses occupy major area in rainfed situation. Hence the present investigation was carried out to study the impact of climate change on productivity of rainfed pulse and climate resilient technologies in increasing productivity of blackgram under rainfed situation. Mohanur block was purposively selected from Namakkal district of Tamil Nadu for the present study. Demonstrations were conducted in 50 farmer’s field in 3 villages, where climate resilient technologies viz., improved blackgram variety VBN 8, biofertilizer application, pulse wonder spray (@5kg/ha) and trap for reducing pest incidence were included under this study. In terms of yield, farmers received an average yield of 854 - 985kg/ha of blackgram variety VBN 8 against 734 kg/ha of old blackgram VBN 4 variety. The highest gross income of Rs.31200 - 39650/ha were also realized from blackgram followed by VBN 8. Highest benefit-cost ratio (2.9-3.0) was realized in case of blackgram variety VBN 8 compared to farmers practices with old variety (2.2-2.4). Based on the experiment it can be concluded that the cultivation of blackgram VBN 8 recorded more profit. Hence, new blackgram VBN 8 variety in rainfed condition is a viable option for combating negative impacts of climate change.  The farmers expressed their preference (per cent) for blackgram variety VBN 8 on the aspects like less pest and disease resistance (83%), grain yield (78%), climate variation resistance (58%), time of maturity (76%), ease of processing during harvesting (89%), socio-cultural compatibility (74%) and market price (65%). Improved crop varieties are widely accepted as primary input for guaranteed increase in production and productivity under various situations