Advanced composite materials have excellent performance and broad engineering application prospects, and have received widespread attention in recent years. Advanced composite materials can mainly be divided into fiber-reinforced composite materials, laminated composite materials, matrix composite materials, and other composite materials. This article provides a comprehensive overview of the types and characteristics of advanced composite materials, and provides a comprehensive evaluation of the latest research on structural strengthening and resilience improvement in advanced composite materials from the perspectives of new methods, modeling optimization, and practical applications. In the field of fiber-reinforced composite materials, the hybrid technology of carbon fiber and glass fiber can achieve dual advantages in combining the two materials. The maximum increase in mechanical properties of multilayer sandwich RH plate by hybrid technology is 435.4% (tensile strength), 149.2% (flexural strength), and 110.7~114.2% (shear strength), respectively. In the field of laminated composite materials, different mechanical properties of laminated composite materials can be obtained by changing the deposition sequence. In the field of matrix composites, nano copper oxide particles prepared by nanotechnology can increase the hardness and tensile strength of the metal matrix material by 77% and 78%, respectively. In the field of other composite materials, viscoelastic materials and magnetorheological variants have received widespread attention. The development of composite materials benefits from the promotion of new methods and technologies, but there are still problems such as complex preparation, high cost, and unstable performance. Considering the characteristics, application requirements, cost, complexity, and performance of different types of composite materials, further improvements and innovations are needed in modeling and optimization to better meet practical engineering needs, such as the application of advanced composite materials in civil engineering, ships, automobiles, batteries, and other fields.