Objectives  The The purpose of this study is to explore and identify the key factors of a convergence methodology for psychotherapeutic approach through design thinking methodology to improve the resilience of undergraduate university students. Methods  This study is a case analysis through literature research, which is a method of qualitative research, and examined the data collected through Korean academic information KISS, Academic Research Information Service RISS, and Library of Congress, which are centered on Korean prior research. In the selection process, duplicate content was excluded from the National Assembly Library, KISS, and RISS searches and from all published thesis and academic journals. A total of 12 cases were selected for final research: 10 academic journals and 2 conference papers. The collected data were classified into title by research topic, researcher, year of publication, and publication type. The table was arranged in ascending order by year. Results  Through the analysis of previous studies, this study derived 9 key factors of a design thinking-based therapeutic convergence program to improve the resilience of college students. Key factors have been identified as ‘Improving Interpersonal Capacity of Empathy (ES)’, ‘Improving Self-Control through Empathy’ (EC), ‘Improving Self-Control Through Defining (DFC)’, ‘Improving Self-Control through Presenting Ideas (Ideas)’ (IC), ‘Improving Positivity through Ideas (IP)’, ‘Improving Positivity through Prototypes (PP)’, ‘Improving Positivity through Testing (TP)’, ‘Improving Self-Control through Diffusion Thinking (DVC)’, and ‘Improving Self-Control through Convergent Thinking (CC)’. Conclusions  Therefore, this study presented the Resilience Design Thinking Process (RDTP) in 6 steps based on the 9 key factors of resilience design thinking derived from the case analysis of prior research. The 6th stage of RDTP was presented as ‘Interpersonal Relationship of Empathizing (ES)’, ‘Self-Regulation through Ideation (IC)’, ‘Self-Regulation through Defining (DFC)’, ‘Positive Ideation (IP)’, ‘Positivity Prototype (Visualization) (PP)’ and ‘Enhancing Positivity through Testing (TP)’.