The paper examines the theoretical and methodological foundations of the formation of the trajectory of postwar recovery of Ukraine on the basis of resilience and environmental safety. As the experience of the months that have passed since the beginning of active hostilities shows, war has the worst effect on the environment. At the same time, in the long term and in the future, when forecasting, one should distinguish between direct and indirect impacts, as well as lost opportunities. Direct impacts include explosions that destroy the ecosystem, noise pollution, etc. The direct impact of projectiles and pollution by burnt military equipment completely destroys the ecosystem. When cities are destroyed by military activity, the environment also suffers. Based on world experience, resilience is revealed as a process of achieving flexibility, an adaptively specific property of the system to return to a stable state after passing bifurcation points; its ability to recover through its own resources and development factors. Under these conditions, sustainable nature management in the conditions of the transformation of property relations and the post-war security system occupies a special, dominant place, since it not only significantly affects the regulation of the process of resource use, but also contributes to the greening of the space of life, the achievement of the potential for self-reproduction (restoration) of the national socio-ecological-economic system, taking into account the inevitability of its changes under the influence of external challenges and risks. The chosen direction of research is part of the general mainstream and is connected with the issues of adapting the existing national business practice to the standards inherent in economies with developed market relations and the appropriate institutional environment. For Ukraine in the post-war period of recovery, it will be extremely important to take into account the possibilities of resilience, resilience factors in all areas, meaning the ability to quickly return the economic, ecological and social system to its original state in response to a systemic failure - military events and their consequences. A system of internal factors that will determine the process of building resilience (own and acquired) is proposed and their cumulative effect for the needs of environmental restoration is emphasized. It is noted that a separate important component remains the search for funding sources and the development of an adaptive organizational and economic mechanism for the restoration of territories, taking into account the factors of compliance with environmental safety. At the same time, the fact that the funds that the state planned to spend on energy efficiency, green economy, renewable energy sources, creation of new nature reserves, preservation of species, are now being spent on military actions has a significant impact on increasing environmental risks for resilience.