Summary
Although green recovery and regenerative tourism are well-documented in the literature, case studies at the destination level are lacking, and this is because the application of these concepts is still in its early stages. Therefore, this case study examines a rural tourism community in Lower Kinabatangan, Sabah (Malaysia). The authors used longitudinal analysis from 2007 to 2019, semi-structured interviews, and participant observations to illustrate how the area has managed to successfully recover from intense deforestation following years of exploitation by timber companies and also cushion the impact of COVID-19. The community pushed for a recovery agenda based on community-based ecotourism and green recovery, which resulted in the growth of regenerative tourism. This study examines how the community has seized new opportunities through ecotourism at Miso Walai Homestay, linked to a community forest-restoration programme, and how these opportunities were intensified during the COVID-19 pandemic to compensate for the lack of tourists. Consequently, this case study shows how Miso Walai Homestay has become a model of a regenerative approach that promotes a resilient rural tourism destination. Key success factors have been the agile community leadership, an early start in community forest restoration, partnerships with volunteer organizations, the establishment of trust and reputation, the promotion of citizen science, and the embrace of green recovery initiatives.
This case highlights the success of Miso Walai Homestay in leveraging green recovery initiatives to cushion the financial impact of two situations. First, after the withdrawal of the timber companies from the Kinabatangan region (Malaysia), a new model of community-based tourism was established through a community forest restoration programme. Second, during the lockdown period of the COVID-19 pandemic, income streams were consolidated from green recovery. The Miso Walai Homestay enjoyed a subsequent recovery stage in tandem with the gradual return of international tourists.

Information
© The Authors 2023
