AbstractAimTo explore the resilience of children, six to thirteen years old, living on a Northern Plains American Indian Reservation using a situation specific nursing theory.BackgroundAmerican Indian and Alaska Native children experience mental health inequities compared to their white peers, including substance use, suicide, depression, and anxiety. Resilience is a strength of children that can be leveraged to improve their mental health.DesignA parallel convergent mixed methods design.MethodsA community advisory board culturally adapted resilience instruments. During two weeks in summer 2022, forty‐seven children/caregiver dyads completed surveys about the child's resilience. Descriptive statistics gave the scores of each child's personal, relational, and total resilience. A subset of 20 children participated in a semi‐structured interview.ResultsChildren scored high on overall resilience, and higher on the relational subscale than the personal subscale. Caregiver survey scores were not significantly correlated with their child's scores and were higher than the children's scores. Qualitative coding revealed six themes of resilience. Integration of data showed a concordance and expansion of the quantitative data across themes.ConclusionThe children reported high resilience supported by a strong ecosystem of relationships. Resilience, as explained through children's voices, corroborated with findings from the surveys.Implications for NursingFindings will help nurses across sectors of primary, secondary, and tertiary care create resilience‐enhancing interventions and prevent mental health crises in this community.Impact StatementThis findings from this study will inform local mental health interventions on the Reservation. The study provides a reproducible design to adapt to other Indigenous communities.Public ContributionA community advisory board was a partner in every stage of the study. Children and caregivers participated in data collection.Contribution to the Wider Clinical Community

This research provides knowledge that will further social justice efforts within nursing to promote health equity across diverse populations.

