
BACKGROUND
Frequent exposure to acute stress increases risk of suicide, posttraumatic stress disorder, and other stress-related disorders. Neuroendocrine and immunologic dysregulation associated with stress may underlie predispositions to psychological disorders and inflammatory disease processes in individuals, such as first-responders and other healthcare professionals, who function in high stress situations. The Hardiness Resilience Gauge (HRG) can be used to psychometrically measure resilience, a psychological modifier of the stress response. Using the HRG alongside salivary biomarker profiling, may help to identify low resilience phenotypes and allow mitigation and early therapeutic interventions. There is a paucity of knowledge regarding biomarkers of resilience. This study aims to evaluate the relationship between factors of resilience with salivary biomarker levels and fluctuations during and following acute stress.


METHODS
Sixty-three first responders underwent a standardized stress-inducing training exercise, providing salivary samples before (prestress), immediately after (post-stress), and 1 hour after the event (recovery). The HRG was administered before (initial) and after (final) the event. Multiplex ELISA panels quantified 42 cytokines and 6 hormones from the samples, which were analyzed for relationships to psychometric factors of resilience measured by the HRG.


RESULTS
Several biomarkers correlated with psychological resilience following the acute stress event. The HRG scores correlated (p < 0.05) with a select set of biomarkers with moderate-to-strong correlations (|r| > 0.3). These included EGF, GROα, PDGFAA, TGFα, VEGFA, interleukin (IL)1Ra, TNFα, IL18, cortisol, FGF2, IL13, IL15, and IL6. Interestingly, fluctuations of EGF, GROα, and PDGFAA in post-stress compared with recovery were positively correlated with factors of resilience, which were negatively correlated from the pre-stress to post-stress period.


CONCLUSION
This exploratory analysis discovered a small subset of salivary biomarkers that are significantly correlated with acute stress and resilience. Further investigation of their specific roles in acute stress and associations with resiliency phenotypes is warranted.
