Background and aims: Most schools only pay attention to the cultivation of students' bodies, knowledge, and skills, but neglect the development and training of university students' psychological skills. When university students exhibit some psychological problems, often will be given to students' mental health education centers to solve, due to the student's mental health education center teachers and the site being more limited. This study aims to evaluate the impact of outdoor adventure education courses on the psychological resilience of university students.
Materials and methods: The researchers used an experience-based learning circle model, incorporating The Resiliency Wheel, Full value contracts, and guidance techniques. Using quantitative studies, interviews, and experimental data, participants were divided into two groups: the experimental group and the control group. The effect of the adventure education course as an 8-week intervention was studied using the psychological resilience Scale. Data were analyzed using a t-test and one-way ANOVA. The experimental group scored higher than the control group in the total scores of psychological resilience and the three components (tenacity, strength, optimism), and these results were statistically significant. Further, the experimental group shows marginal positive changes in the total resilience scale and its three dimensions in terms of effect size. The designed adventure education courses significantly improve the psychological resilience of university students.
Results: The results found that the psychological resilience level of university students was significantly improved after the intervention, and the scores in the dimensions of tenacity, strength, and optimism significantly increased after the intervention. through the research of this paper, we can expand the analytical perspective of psychological resilience and provide a new way of thinking for the improvement of the psychological resilience of university students.
Conclusion: The content of previous interventions on psychological resilience and the factors affecting psychological resilience, applying the concept of the psychological resilience wheel to this course, And the full value contract, guide technology, and outdoor adventure education courses are fully combined and designed.