   Aim. The authors identify industrial regions with a hereditary predisposition to innovative sovereignization, which can ensure their economic resilience.   Tasks. The author substantiates the correlation between economic resilience and innovative sovereignization of industrial regions; determines the regional prerequisites for innovative sovereignization; assesses the predisposition of industrial regions to the growth of innovative sovereignization that would ensure the resilience of the national economy.   Methods. This study uses the method of calculating Frobenius norms to determine the current economic predisposition of industrial regions to innovative sovereignization and Markov chain modeling to assess the expected economic predisposition. Consistent application of these methods makes it possible to model the behavior of regions associated with the expansion of innovation activity on the domestic technology base.   Results. The prerequisites reflecting favorable conditions for the economic resilience of industrial regions in the context of enhancing their innovative sovereignization are revealed.   Conclusions. Some industrial regions have already developed favorable economic conditions for innovative sovereignization, while in others they are only emerging. This means that economic resilience of the national economy at the regional level can be achieved through the implementation of two types of strategies that make allowance for this heredity: stimulating accelerated innovative development of industrial economies on the domestic scientific basis and ensuring smooth innovative development of regions with a gradual decrease in the share of foreign technologies. The first type of strategy can be recommended for the city of Moscow, the Republic of Tatarstan, as well as Samara, Sverdlovsk, and Chelyabinsk regions. The second type of strategy will be appropriate for the city of St. Petersburg as well as Moscow, Tomsk, Nizhny Novgorod, Novosibirsk, Kaluga, and Perm regions.