The high pace rising global competitions across education sector has forced institutions to enhance aforesaid aspects,
which require assessing students or related stakeholders’ perception and opinion towards the learning materials, courses, learning
methods or pedagogies, etc. To achieve it, the use of reviews by students can of paramount significance; yet, annotating student’s
opinion over huge heterogenous and unstructured data remains a tedious task. Though, the artificial intelligence (AI) and natural
language processing (NLP) techniques can play decisive role; yet the conventional unsupervised lexicon, corpus-based solutions,
and machine learning and/or deep driven approaches are found limited due to the different issues like class-imbalance, lack of
contextual details, lack of long-term dependency, convergence, local minima etc. The aforesaid challenges can be severe over
large inputs in Big Data ecosystems. In this reference, this paper proposed an outlier resilient semantic featuring deep driven
sentiment analysis model (ORDSAENet) for educational domain sentiment annotations. To address data heterogeneity and
unstructured-ness over unpredictable digital media, the ORDSAENet applies varied pre-processing methods including missing
value removal, Unicode normalization, Emoji and Website link removal, removal of the words with numeric values, punctuations
removal, lower case conversion, stop-word removal, lemmatization, and tokenization. Moreover, it applies a text size-constrained
criteria to remove outlier texts from the input and hence improve ROI-specific learning for accurate annotation. The tokenized
data was processed for Word2Vec assisted continuous bag-of-words (CBOW) semantic embedding followed by synthetic
minority over-sampling with edited nearest neighbor (SMOTE-ENN) resampling. The resampled embedding matrix was then
processed for Bi-LSTM feature extraction and learning that retains both local as well as contextual features to achieve efficient
learning and classification. Executing ORDSAENet model over educational review dataset encompassing both qualitative
reviews as well as quantitative ratings for the online courses, revealed that the proposed approach achieves average sentiment
annotation accuracy, precision, recall, and F-Measure of 95.87%, 95.26%, 95.06% and 95.15%, respectively, which is higher
than the LSTM driven standalone feature learning solutions and other state-of-arts. The overall simulation results and allied
inferences confirm robustness of the ORDSAENet model towards real-time educational sentiment annotation solution.