Objectives  The purpose of this study is to analyze the effect of foreign students' mindset and resilience on college life exhaustion. Methods  The purpose of this study is to analyze the effect of foreign students' mindset and resilience on college life exhaustion. For the purpose of this study, a survey was conducted on 240 foreign students from four-year universities located in Busan and Yang-san, and data from 204 were finally analyzed. The collected data were analyzed through descriptive statistics, correlation analysis, and hierarchical regression analysis according to research questions. Results  The conclusion of this study is as follows. First, the mindset, resilience, and standard of living of foreign students were found to be high. Looking at the mindsets of foreign students, the growth mindset was average, but the fixed mindset was lower than normal. This shows that the fixed mindset that recognizes one's innate and unchanging abilities was low, and the growth mindset, the belief that anyone can grow with effort, was high. Second, perceived happiness, problem solving ability, emotional regulation ability, and optimism, which are sub-variables of resilience, have a significant effect on college life exhaustion. This can be understood in the context of supporting the study result that the higher the resilience, the higher the level of adaptation to university life. Conclusions  These results will help foreign students to plan for solutions that do not cause academic and life exhaustion during their college life by analyzing and facing the causes of problems and stress for adjusting to university life. In addition, it will be possible to educate and guide international students so that they can actively apply their efforts to solve problems by analyzing them in detail. However, it is necessary to study the specific methods that international students use to cope with academic and life exhaustion during their university life in Korea, and accordingly, it is necessary to study education and methods for positive coping methods. However, the limitations of this study are that it was limited to a limited area and that it was not possible to compare and explore experiences with domestic university students. In a future study, it will be very meaningful to compare and explore the differences and similarities in perception between foreign students and domestic college students.