Value chains have increased in intricacy and length in recent decades as firms prepare to tackle expanding globalisation with increased peripheral advancements. This involves the adoption of leaner supply chains as well as the formation of ecosystems that provide a stable environment and a constant flow of operations. However, because disruptions are inevitable in today's world, the operational models must be tuned to handle any risks. Complex production networks are designed for a variety of reasons, including cost, proximity to markets, and mass standardisation, but not necessarily for transparency or resilience. Any organization's supply chain operations can be a cause of vulnerability or resilience, depending on its capacity to assess risks, adopt risk mitigation methods, and develop effective business continuity plans. Transportation is the most important component in value chains, and transportation resilience is critical in recovering production networks through precise scheduling and achieving resilience indicators such as lowest trip time, minimum cost, and route optimization, among others. The goal of this research is to clarify the key issues in network restoration scheduling and to offer a unique resilience-based optimization model for post-disaster transportation network restoration, in order to clear up theoretical and empirical ambiguity. Cashew industry which is seasonal as well as face many disruptions in production and processing stages was considered for the study. The study's objectives are (a) Study resilience indexes and its influence on transportation system optimization and (b) Study influence of resilience indexes on industry-based challenges with cashew product. The study objectives were addressed utilising an optimization model based on OR techniques and computer programming. The ideal solution for transportation cost, time, and efficiency can be obtained with the least amount of adjustment and analysis time, allowing cashew farmers to take advantage of transportation resilience and earn financial and environmental benefits.