Abstract
Ledok Timoho is one of urban kampung that lays along Gadjahwong riverbank-Yogyakarta city. Urban Kampung is a significant urban area to be studied because it contains the adaptation process of urban people in Indonesian context. Ledok Timoho also has that significant value and has tended to be stable since the beginning, developed as an informal settlement in the 2000s. Visually, the general condition of urban kampung expressed on Ledok Timoho such as high density, limited space, and growth in disaster-prone sites. On the other hand, Ledok Timoho also expresses the ability to organize its environment with green spaces. This uniqueness demonstrates the capacity to survive and to adapt their planning on their site. However, the site is not included in KOTAKU program, so the society could not submit any proposals to improve their living environment because they settled on abandoned private property. Therefore, they should find an alternative approach to prove that Ledok Timoho has significance in values for urban kampung Yogyakarta. The local genius of Ledok Timoho is naturally discovered and applied by the community, which means that there is resilience value that should be explored by a measurable method. The research will use a questionnaire with open-ended, close-ended, and Likert scale questions to collect data from the community. The data will be abstracted with the SPSS program, using Principle Component Analysis to measure and generate the genetic distance and the relation between aspects and variables of the questionnaire. The PCA result will be used as workshop material with inhabitants to structure the rationale reason of Ledok Timoho’s resilience. The result of the study is a set of resilience principles that generally can be used broadly in the urban kampung context. It also can be an alternative reason to attract government attention so that the community has an alternative solution for their settlements by proven the resilience that seen from their ability to keep their independence, environment, social cohesion, and micro-financial.