Owing to it is a system supporting coping capacities and adaptation processes by preserving individuals against the streesful life experiences, psychological resilience is among the generally emphasized concepts in today’s world. Ethical dilemma includes conflicts which affect negative process of deciding while social workers are accomplishing their professional responsibilities. It is thought that psychologic stability supports social works positive decision making when they experience ethical dilemma. The aim of this study is identifying the future social workers who are students of the social work education now and their psychological resilience levels and its effect on their attitudes towards the ethical dilemma and improving suggestions in the light of the results obtained from the social work viewpoint. SPSS 22.0 program has been used while analysing the investigation. It has been seemed that there are significant relationship between the psychological resilience of the social work education students and their ethical deciding and psychological resilience predict the ethical decides in the positive direction. Besides that participants haven’t been significantly different from each other in terms of statistical at their psychological resilience according to their sex, age, class variables but participants living with their family according to location have had significantly higher than others. About their ethical decides it has been different from each other according to their ages, class, location variables in terms of statistical but female participants’ environment of deciding have been higher significantly than male participants. In the light of the results obtained social work education students who will most likely experience ethical dilemma it is important that their psychological resilience have to be strengthened during their professional lifes. Accordingly it is offered so as to be strengthen in terms of psychologic and social, they should be supported, equipped with professional ability about overcoming the stress, self confidence, fighting against the crisis.