Aim: The study evaluates the flood resilience measures in buildings on flood-plains of Ogbaru, with a view to establishing the extent of its incorporation into the design and construction of Buildings.
Study Design: It was a survey research, questionnaires were distributed to heads of the selected households and building practitioners in the study area. Likewise, physical observations were carried out to substantiate the findings of the questionnaire survey.
Place and Duration of the Study: The study was conducted in Ogbaru Local Government Area, Anambra State, Nigeria for a period of 2 years.
Methodology: Being a survey research, data were collected through structured questionnaire administered to the selected building construction practitioners and occupants in Ogbaru. In addition, interviews and direct observation survey were conducted to substantiate the validity of the questionnaire survey. Accordingly, a total of four hundred and (400) questionnaires were distributed and a total of two hundred and ninety-three (293) questionnaires were completed and returned. This corresponds to a response rate of 73.3%.  Data collected were analyzed using mean score, standard deviation, pearson product moment correlation (PPMC) techniques and z-test.
Results: The study found out that the flood resilience measures are not largely incorporated into the design and construction of buildings. The flood resilience measures currently in use are few and includes raised building floor level or platform, use of concrete floor and tiling, use of embankments, re-routing flood water channels, building walls and floors with none/low permeability materials, raised kitchen appliances and low walls or barriers between streetscape, Also, advanced or sophisticated flood resilience measures such as Automatic window opening panels (flood inlets), water sensors within and outside buildings and hybrid design are rarely used in the study area.
Conclusion: The study concluded by recommending that flood resilience measure should be incorporated into the development/ construction of building within the study area. Also, newer and sustainable flood resilience measures/technologies should be made available and affordable in the study area.