The power sector plays a critical role in the functioning of the economy and the security of a country, being closely interconnected with other vital infrastructures, such as gas supply, water supply, transportation, and telecommunications. Ensuring a stable power supply is crucial for the uninterrupted operation of these systems. One way to enhance the resilience of the power system is by integrating local networks with distributed renewable generation into the overall energy infrastructure. The flexibility, stability, controllability, and self-healing capabilities of microgrids make them an effective solution for improving the resilience of the power system. The power grid is susceptible to disturbances and disruptions that can cause large-scale power outages for consumers. Statistical data indicates that approximately 90% of outages occur due to issues in the distribution system, thus research focuses on local microgrids with distributed renewable generation. This study analyzed the role of microgrids with renewable generation in enhancing the resilience of power systems. Additionally, functions of microgrids that contribute to enhancing power system resilience, such as service restoration, network formation strategies, control and stability, as well as preventive measures, were summarized. It was found that local microgrids have significant potential to enhance power system resilience through the implementation of various strategies, from emergency response planning to providing reliable energy supply for quick responses to military, environmental, and human-induced crises. The concept of local distributed energy generation, storage, and control can reduce reliance on long-distance power transmission lines, reduce network vulnerabilities, and simultaneously improve its resilience and reduce recovery time. It has been determined that the most necessary and promising approaches to enhance the resilience of the power system include developing appropriate regulatory frameworks, implementing automatic frequency and power control systems, ensuring resource adequacy (including the reservation of technical components), promoting distributed generation, integrating energy storage systems into the energy grid, and strengthening cyber security. Keywords: resilience, local power systems, MicroGrid, distributed generation, renewable energy sources.