 e20736  Background: Resillience is the ability to successfully cope with change or misfortune, allowing a person or a group to regain balance and keep going despite adversity and also to find meaning amidst confusion and tumult. It is a positive personality characteristic that enhances individual and group adaptation. Very scanty data exists regarding its quantification and distribution in cancer patients. The objective of this study is to evaluate and describe resilience scores in a population of ambulatory solid tumors cancer patients receiving chemotherapy treatment. Methods: Individual Resillience scores were measured by the Wagnild and Young Scale, validated for portuguese language from Brazil. It is composed by 25-item questions, scored on a 7-point scale from 1 = disagree, to 7 = agree, with all items worded positively. Possible scores range from 25 to 175 with higher scores reflecting higher resilience. During the year 2008, this scale was applied to 48 ambulatory solid tumor cancer patients in chemotherapy treatment at Oncosinos / Hospital Regina in Novo Hamburgo, Brazil. The study was approved by the Ethics comitte and all patiens signed the informed consent form. Results: The mean age of patients was 52 years (19–76) and 34 (70%) were women. The most common cancer types were: breast (48%), colo-rectal (21%) and prostate (8%). Most patients (47%) had stage IV disease and were in palliative chemotherapy treatment. Stage III cancer was present in 40% and stages I and II in 13% of patients. The mean score of resilience was 141+ 12 (101–174). The scores demosntrated a normal statistical distribution. No statistical differences in the mean resillience scores were detected between groups of patients as defined by: sex (P=0.11), age > or < 50 years (P=0.9), cancer type (P= 0.78), disease staging (P= 0.9), or the chemotherapy treatment intention, if palliative or curative (P=0.91). Conclusions: The resilience scores in this cohort of patients display a statistically normal distribution. Our results suggest that the total resillience score is an intrinsic individual characteristic that is independent of cancer stage, cancer type, age and sex of the patients. Further research is necessary to clarify the implications of these findings.  No significant financial relationships to disclose. 