
Purpose
COVID-19, like many previous crises, proved once more that some hospitality and tourism organizations are more crises resilient than others. Despite increasing frequency and magnitude of crises, little is known about the features of crises resilient organizations and mitigation strategies they adopt. If the characteristics of such resiliency are identified, those strengths might be targeted. Hence, the purpose of this study is to identify characteristics of crises resilient organizations by analyzing the interface between different organizational characteristics, recovery strategies they adopted and impacts of COVID-19 on individual hospitality and tourism organizations.


Design/methodology/approach
A global sample of 202 respondents from 20 countries and four continents, representing different sectors of the hospitality and tourism industry, participated in the survey. Descriptive analysis and cluster analysis were used to rank the items and group hospitality and tourism organizations based on their crises resiliency.


Findings
Service quality, loyal customers, branding, high paid in capital, domestic market base, hygiene and safety image, information and communication technology adoption, product and market diversification and restructuring debts emerged as major characteristics and strategies of crises resilient organizations. Using cluster analysis, four different groups of organizations were identified. Based on the impacts of COVID-19 on these organizations, Cluster-1 emerged as significantly more crises resilient, whereas Cluster-4 organizations were significantly more vulnerable to crises. Their characteristics and mitigation strategies they adopted were discussed.


Research limitations/implications
The paper not only identified features of crises resilient organizations and successful mitigation strategies but also measured their impact on various performance indicators. Future studies might use characteristics, mitigation strategies and performance indicators identified in this study.


Practical implications
Based on the findings, tourism organizations would focus on strengthening characteristics and implementing strategies that make crises resilient organizations. Public bodies and destination management would also set their decision criteria based on these findings to create a more resilient tourism industry.


Originality/value
This research not only identifies how hospitality and tourism organizations are affected by COVID-19 but also how these impacts change based on different organizational characteristics and strategies. Understanding which organizational characteristics affect the crises vulnerability of hospitality and tourism organizations might inform risk and crises management literature and structural design elements in tourism businesses, hence offer both theoretical and practical implications.
