BackgroundFew evidence‐based psychosocial programs have been tested among adolescents and young adults (AYAs) with advanced cancer (AC), and early advance care planning (ACP) in this population is rare. The authors aimed to determine the feasibility and acceptability of 1) delivering an established resilience‐coaching program, and 2) integrating ACP into that program, among AYAs with AC.MethodsEligible AYAs were 12 to 24 years old, diagnosed with advanced cancer (recurrent/refractory disease or a diagnosis associated with <50% survival) and fluent in English. The Promoting Resilience in Stress Management–Advanced Cancer (PRISM‐AC) program included PRISM's standard sessions targeting stress‐management, goal‐setting, cognitive‐restructuring, and meaning‐making, delivered 1:1, 1 to 2 weeks apart, plus a new session involving elements of the AYA‐specific Voicing My Choices ACP guide. Participants completed surveys at baseline and 12 weeks, and exit interviews following study completion. Feasibility was defined as ≥70% completion of 1) standard 4‐session PRISM and 2) the new ACP session among those completing standard PRISM. Acceptability was defined qualitatively. Trajectories of patient‐reported anxiety, depression, and hope were examined descriptively.ResultsOf 50 eligible, approached AYAs, 26 (52%) enrolled and completed baseline surveys. The AYAs had a mean age of 16 years (SD = 2.7 years), and the majority were male (73%) and White/Caucasian (62%). Twenty‐two AYAs (85%) completed standard PRISM, and of those, 18 (82%) completed the ACP session. Feedback was highly positive; 100% and 91% described the overall and ACP programs as valuable, respectively. Anxiety, depression, and hope were unchanged after the program.ConclusionsResilience coaching followed by integrated ACP is feasible and acceptable for AYAs with AC. Participating did not cause distress or decrease hope.Lay Summary

Advance care planning (ACP) among adolescents and young adults (AYAs) with advanced cancer can be difficult to introduce.
We investigated whether it is feasible and acceptable to integrate ACP into an existing resilience‐coaching program for AYAs.
In this cohort study of 26 AYAs with advanced cancer, we found the Promoting Resilience in Stress Management–Advanced Cancer program to be feasible (≥70% intervention‐completion) and highly acceptable (positive post‐participation feedback, no evidence of participant‐distress).
We conclude that an intervention integrating resilience coaching and ACP is feasible and acceptable among AYAs with advanced cancer.

