This study is carried to assess and evaluate the Potential Environmental Impact Assessment of Land Reclamation and Resilience Mitigation in Bakoteh Dumpsite and Bafuloto Quarry in West Coast Region (WCR) in Gambia. The term reclamation and recovery are used interchangeably for land left for a longer period of time that could be for agricultural practices and development advancement purposes. Though, the left over land may have been affected by different activities of anthropogenic and natural phenomena which may results to climate change and global warming effects. Land reclamation sustainability strategic approaches in improving the land efficiency through physical master land plan and policies (PMLPP), adopted and practiced by the government in the country for buildings and roads construction. This is achieved through sustainable development goal (SDG), 9, 10, 11, 12, etc. This study adopts the use of qualitative research methods, a total of two hundred and seventy (270) persons were administered questionnaire for assessment, bothsex is above the ages of twenty (20),was selected during data collection. The analysis of data was done using simple percentage expression. Data analyses alsoshowed that the highest percentage rates was found in not accepted (NA) which recorded 62.96% from responses of on hundred and seventy persons in Bakoteh from the questionnaire number 9 which says” Are Bakoteh people compensated on their land reclaimed dividend benefits?, followed by the average percentage rate of 57.77% recorded against not accepted (NA) from the responses of one hundred and fifty-six people in Bakoteh as well, from the questionnaire number 10 which says” Do you think land reclaimed in Bakoteh dumpsite, possess sustainable development goal (SDGs 9)?. The lowest percentage rate was found in strongly accepted (SA) in questionnaire number 9 also, with4.07% from the responses of eleven people only. Chi-square was use statistically, to test for their level of significance, for the respondent  responses in stations specification, and data characterization, At P>0.05, it showed level of insignificant. Subject Area: Environmental Sciences