Purpose: The tourism industry is one of the most dynamic in the world over due to the fact that customers’ needs and demands are always changing.  Furthermore, the environment in which the sector operates in is also changing so fast in terms of technological advancement and effects of climate change.  This therefore calls for shift in the delivery of service and development of innovating ways in the Tourism and hospitality sector for its survival and growth. The study focused on the flexibility of the hotels to adapt to changes in the environment, its resilience in coping with the Covid-19 pandemic and the new innovations and creativity that helped the industry bounce back post Covid-19.   The main objective was to examine the challenges that the tourism industry experienced during the Covid-19 period and establish the new innovations and business models adopted by 4- and 5-Star hotels in the tourism and hospitality industry in Kenya enabled the establishments to navigate through the challenges to resume hotel operations. 
Methodology: The study was undertaken through online surveys in eighty-eight 4- and 5-Star hotels in Kenya with the respondents being hotel managers. Data was collected using a quantitative approach and adopted a cross-sectional research design. The data was analyzed using both descriptive and inferential statistical techniques.  
Findings: The findings revealed enhanced use of technological and digital innovations in operational areas that comprised contactless reservation and check-in systems, new products and packaging, new ways and means of retailing/delivering the products and services to the customers without physical contact, cashless payment solutions, revised standard operating procedures in housekeeping and food and beverage service, safety, security and hygiene protocols and food production and dispensing. In addition, new opportunities for new markets were created and products diversified. The innovations have also created an avenue for tourism and hospitality trainers to review and realign curricula and mode of service to be in tandem with the changes in the socio-economic environment.
Recommendations: The study adds to the growing body of literature on new innovative ways used in the hospitality and tourism sector by leveraging on technology in the digital era. The findings of the study can be applied in the hotels in Kenya and beyond. It also recommends the development of a policy framework for collaboration and partnership for the region to facilitate and enhance tourism within East Africa and the Africa. 
 
 
 