The aim: The article presents the results of an empirical study aimed at identifying individual typological profiles of people with different potential for emotional resilience development.
Materials and methods: The authors identify a set of characteristics that determine emotional resilience development and suggest standardized methodologies to measure their intensity level (Eysenck Personality Inventory (EPI), Strelau Temperament Inventory (STI), Thurstone Temperament Schedule adapted by Khainovski, and the Leonhard–Schmieschek questionnaire). The outcomes of the data processed in the R environment have allowed the determination of the parameters of the psychological profile of an average client and identification of the traits that have the strongest impact on emotional resilience development.
Results: The constructed factor-correlation-cluster model based on the mean data values for each of the respondents’ psychological profiles contains three superclusters: 1) orientation at outer/inner world, 2) behavioral determination stability, 3) reflectivity. Accordingly, six types of psychological profiles of individuals with different potential for emotional resilience development have been determined. The six types are: 1) outward-oriented (looking) type; 2) inward-oriented type; 3) stable behavioral determination type; 4) unstable behavioral determination type; 5) reflectivity-oriented type; 6) reflectivity- non-oriented type. The authors describe the structure and peculiarities of manifestation of the individual psychological characteristics within each supercluster. The behavioral manifestations that facilitate or hinder the development of emotional resilience of individuals belonging to certain profiles are also described.
Conclusions: The implementation prospects of the developed typology of psychological profiles of individuals with different emotional resilience resources are related to providing client-oriented support of emotional resilience development. Further research will address the development, piloting and implementation of the socio-psychological strategies of emotional resilience development support based on the suggested psychological profile typology.