Background: Graduate students experience depression and anxiety at rates six times higher than the general population. A literature review of resilience education and an environmental scan of existing preventative resources found that current university-provided mental health interventions are primarily reactive, short-term, and crisis-oriented. There remains a need for preventative resources that prepare students to effectively face adversity and maintain wellbeing during graduate school.  
Purpose: In collaboration with experts in mental health, psychology, pedagogy, resource development, and graduate students themselves, our team aims to develop and implement a proactive, skill-based resource that teaches strategies to foster resilience in graduate school while emphasizing the importance of self-care, self-awareness, and help-seeking.  
Methods: Our new co-created resource is to be assessed in three phases: (1) Qualitative Needs Analysis, (2) Intervention Ideation, and (3) Resource Validation. All participants for this study will be graduate students in the first two years of their degree and recruited from the University of Toronto Temerty Faculty of Medicine (TFM). Phase One will be conducted through qualitative focus groups to explore student needs and experiences with mental health resources. Focus group data will be transcribed and analyzed using NVIVO to establish criteria for our resource prototype. In Phase Two, all data, in addition to input from a student advisory committee composed of TFM graduate students, will be compiled to design our prototype. In Phase Three, focus groups will assess the prototype and provide their feedback on the content and functionality of the resource, and where it might be improved.
Anticipated Results and Potential Implications: Overall, we anticipate that this resource prototype will leave a positive impression on the Phase Two participants, helping them build their resilience-based skills and strategies for facing adverse events. Overall, given the correlation between increased resilience and improved mental health, we expect that this resource will reduce levels of depression and anxiety for students by preparing them for the stress they experience in graduate school. If successful, this resource may be adapted to address the needs of graduate students in different departments, universities, and institutions worldwide.