Abstract
Potential impacts from climate change and other disturbances expedite
                        the need to address vulnerabilities of urban forests. Low species diversity
                        is a contributor to high urban forest vulnerability, and this study examined
                        40 public and private tree inventories in the metropolitan area of
                        Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. Applying an established vulnerability framework,
                        this study helps to identify the current and future resilience of the urban
                        forest in the face of climate change and other urban forest threats. A
                        Milwaukee metropolitan area tree inventory was compiled and includes 439,974
                        trees. This inventory then was assessed under 2 climate change models
                        through the end of the century (2070 to 2099). It also was assessed for
                        species diversity under multiple diameter classes, and the Shannon Diversity
                        Index was used to determine correlations between tree size and diversity.
                        The resulting data analysis revealed a poorly diversified urban tree canopy
                        in the Milwaukee metropolitan area. However, when looking at tree size and
                        diversity, diversity increased as tree diameters decreased. Additional
                        analysis revealed that under a low climate change scenario (RCP 4.5), only
                        9.5% of the overall inventory was within the moderate, moderate-high, or
                        high vulnerability categories through the end of the century. Under a high
                        climate change scenario (RCP 8.5), 55.52% of the inventory fell within those
                        same vulnerability categories. Diameter class did not have a significant
                        impact on vulnerability under either climate change scenario. This data can
                        help inform urban forestry practitioners during species selection for
                        planting trees in their communities.