he main areas of research into the consequences of extreme situations associated with the participation of police officers in counter-terrorism operations are related to assessing the severity of posttraumatic stress disorder and other destructive effects on the psyche. In the framework of this study, the authors show that the experience of participation in extreme situations can have productive effects associated with increased vitality.
The study involved employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia, 21 people (all men) undergoing training to participate in counter-terrorism operations in the North Caucasus region of the Russian Federation. Data collection methods: Mississippi scale for assessing post-traumatic reactions (military option); test of viability S. Muddy (in adaptation D.A. Leontiev, E.I. Rasskazova).
The experience of participating in hostilities, the activity of an internal affairs officer is highly stressful and traumatic, associated with the need to overcome aggressive pressure and provide assistance in situations of suffering and helplessness, which is also a traumatic factor. However, none of the participants were diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder. The following pattern was established: the younger the employee and the less experience he has, the less pronounced his violations associated with being in extreme conditions. Employees with experience in counterterrorism operations perceive risk situations not as destructive, but as natural for the implementation of professional tasks.
The greatest contribution to adaptation strategies to cope with the consequences of experiencing traumatic situations is made by such viable beliefs as willingness to perceive any situation as useful and risking for the sake of achieving a better result, as well as the belief that any difficulties can be overcome and the employee’s efforts are enough to deal with them. It is these characteristics that make the maximum contribution to the stability of employees of internal affairs bodies to the effects of psychotraumatic factors and ensure a high level of their resilience.