The general purpose of this research is to examine the psychological resilience of high school students and to compare them with various variances. The population of the research consists of high school students studying in state high schools in Yozgat in the 2019-2020 academic year, and the sampling is consisted of 200 high school students which is determined by the sampling method. In this research, descriptive sequential pattern, which is one of the mixed method research patterns in which qualitative and quantitative research approaches are used together, was applied. Quantitative data were acquired with psychological resilience scale developed by Işık (2016). The psychological resilience scale consists of three sub-dimensions: Commitment, control and challenge. Qualitative data were collected using a semi-structured questionnaire and interview technique. Quantitative data were analyzed using the SPSS 22 package program. Since the research data showed normal distribution as a result of the analysis made with the ShapiroWilk test, binary comparisons were analyzed in independent samples with the t-test and ANOVA test. Relational analyzes were realized by using pearson correlation test. In the analysis of qualitative data, content analysis technique was used. According to the research findings gained; there was a statistically significant difference determined in favor of male participants in the sub-dimension of the athlete according to the gender variable of the participants, in favor of the students who exercise in the sub-dimension of control and the sub-dimension according to their sports. According to the academic success level variable, it was concluded that there was no statistically significant difference in the level of commitment and control sub-dimensions and general psychological resilience. In addition, it was determined that there was no statistically significant relationship between the ages of the participants, their sub-dimensions of control, challenge and general psychological resilience. As a result of the content analysis conducted in the qualitative part of the research, it was stated that the effects of the sport in the point of coping with the negative situations where the factors affecting the psychological resilience levels of the students negatively and positively are similar. Consequently, it has been determined that individuals whose sports psychological resilience is negatively affected are one of the methods they frequently use to get rid of the negative situation.