 We live in an era of globalisation where technology, automation and digital networks drive disruptions in various spheres of life, work, family, health and society. They have increased productivity, ease of working and material comfort for humans worldwide, along with accelerating the pace of work and life. With the continued growth of technology, we are on the verge of Industry 4.0. The implications are changing at a fast pace and are associated with negative impact on health and wellness, as employees struggle to cope. In the last two decades, there has appeared a growing awareness of the need for total wellness, with implications for employee engagement and productivity. In the recent months, COVID-19 has caused further pressure on mental health, with employees struggling with anxiety, stress and depression, when organisations need them to be fully engaged, focused and making critical decisions.  In this article, the authors highlight the need to equip employees with tools to build total resilience: physical, mental and spiritual. They propose a toolbox called ‘R-box’ (resilience box) to enhance employees’ ability to perform under stress. The toolkit is developed from the perspective that employees and leaders see themselves as corporate athletes ( Loehr & Schwartz, 2001 ) and train themselves as athletes do, so as to sustain high levels of performance and, in the process, achieve high personal growth. Considering time as a major resource constraint for low adoption, R-box uses a range of mini-interventions, focused on the four areas of ‘run’ (body movement), ‘refresh’ (nutrition), ‘restore’ (sleep) and ‘rebalance’ (mind-related).  Being Strong is a programme for leaders which has been running for a few years in Asia-Pacific (APAC). ‘R-box’ is central to this programme. An exploratory study was conducted with women leaders in Southeast Asia, especially from Malaysia and Indonesia, who were a part of the Being Strong programme. In the study, the authors try to find out how the R-box toolkit, practised by the participants over 12 weeks, has impacted their ability to deal with stress and grow their resilience.  This article elaborates the findings of the survey conducted in 2020, 90 days after the programme. The survey showed over 80 per cent adoption by the participants. Further, over 85 per cent of those who adopted the toolkit saw an improvement in their ability to deal with stress with enhanced resilience. This appears to demonstrate the usefulness of R-box as a powerful toolkit for enhancing resilience.  Based on the above, the authors propose the study to be extended to a larger audience in Southeast Asia and beyond. They also recommend HR to play a lead role in bringing wellness, as a driver of employee engagement and productivity. This has implications for the immediate situation of COVID-19 pandemic-impacted work and life, and the future of work too. 