This article examines the issues of climate change in the African context. The question is: what are the blueprints for addressing the dimensions of climate change in Africa and the implementation of SDG13 of the 2030 Agenda? The relief, the climate, the hydrography and the vegetation appear as fundamental bases in the restoration of the natural potentialities. The paradox of demography and the history of installations of cities without planning constitute “paths” of pertinent reflection in the constitution and exposure to risks. To restore the natural potentialities of practices and measures against drought, floods, destabilization of biotopes, overgrazing and deforestation appear as requirements. However, individual initiatives are futile without resorting to resilience supports, insemination forces and impetus impulses to structural engagement through the availability of green economy and individual commitments. The focal point of action for resilience appears with the consolidation of the economic being. This is what this reflection poses as a postulate: starting from the constitution of the awareness of needs to reveal in the subject his responsibility as a dynamic actor by necessity and / or by awareness of a need for action. This resilience appears with a co-construction of the external environment (physical, ecological, sustainability of resources, etc.) and the internal environment (consciousness, needs, new patterns, path and pattern of action, etc.) of the individual. Individual action becomes a socio-environmentally constructed act, socioculturally acceptable and socio-economically viable. The act is therefore part of a micro system, with springs and consequences on systems with a meso and macro dimension, therefore, included in the SDG13 of the 2030 Agenda. A guideline appears in the presentation of the research with a socio-economic actor positioning himself in his micro environment with instruments of collective action which consolidates socio-economic, environmental and climatic systems at the meso and macro level in Africa.