Farmer households in tourist villages have been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the recovery of livelihood is proving difficult. In order to improve farmer households’ ability to cope with external shocks, we have applied the theoretical framework of resilience to study farmer households’ livelihood in ethnic tourism villages. Based on the survey data of 480 farmer households from 10 ethnic tourism villages in the Wuling Mountain area, this study constructs a livelihood resilience evaluation index system from three of the following dimensions: buffer capacity, adaptive capacity, and transformation capacity. These households are classified into three types: government-led, company-led, and community-led. In addition, the livelihood resilience and its influencing factors of each type is quantitatively assessed. The results show that the livelihood resilience of farmer households administered by the government, companies, and communities is 0.2984, 0.3250, and 0.2442, respectively. Government-led farmer households have the greatest transformation capacity, company-led farmer households have the largest buffer capacity and adaptive capacity, and community-led farmer households have the least capacity across the board. The results indicated that the company-led management of tourism development is currently the most appropriate mode of management for the local area. Four factors, namely, the number of family members engaged in tourism, the training opportunities for the development of professional skills, the education level of core family members, and the type of assistance subsidy available to a family, are the dominant obstacle factors with respect to the livelihood resilience of different types of farmer households. Finally, some recommendations are made to improve the farmer households’ livelihood resilience in ethnic tourism villages based on two aspects of organization management and farmer households’ behavior. The findings of this study can be used as a theoretical foundation for future research on farmer households’ resilience to poverty in underdeveloped ethnic tourism villages.