AbstractAims and objectivesTo examine transition shock in newly licensed nurses and the association of work environment and resilience with nurses' transition shock.BackgroundAlthough work environment is related to transition shock in newly licensed nurses, little is known about the factors of nursing work environment associated with transition shock. Furthermore, resilience is known to help nurses positively face workplace challenges; however, there is little evidence on the associations between resilience and transition shock in new nurses.DesignA cross‐sectional, descriptive study.MethodsData from 163 new nurses with <12 months of work experience in the current hospital since graduation were analysed. Participants' characteristics, work environment, nurse resilience and transition shock were self‐reported. Multivariable linear regressions were performed in three steps (following the STROBE checklist).ResultsThe highest mean score of transition shock was obtained for the item ‘I perceive the limitations of my professional knowledge in nursing care'. In the regression analysis adjusted for all variables, two factors of work environment—‘nurse staffing and resource adequacy’ and ‘collegial nurse‐physician relationships’—were associated with transition shock. Meanwhile, resilience was not related to transition shock.ConclusionsThe gap between newly licensed nurses' theoretical and practical knowledge continues to exist. Adequate nurse staffing and a positive relationship with physicians, rather than nurse resilience, were more likely to associate with new nurses' transition shock.Relevance to clinical practiceHospitals need to provide ward‐based simulations and case‐based learning methods to enhance nurses' transition to professional practice. For nurses' transition, hospitals should make efforts to provide adequate nurse staffing and resources. Furthermore, hospitals should provide communication opportunities to build a positive collaborative culture between nurses and physicians. Unit nurse managers need to assess newly licensed nurses' perception of nurse–physician professional relationship and create an atmosphere of respect and understanding for each other.