The sustainability of tourism activities faces many challenges. Furthermore, in the context of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their overall slow progress, tourism-related goals and targets are underachieved. To address these challenges, this study has recognized sporting events as an opportunity to enhance the socio-economic activities in tourism destinations during off-season periods. More specifically, the aim of this study is to explore the dynamics of off-season destination resilience through small-scale running events, focusing on three key aspects: the strategies employed by organizers, the synergy created within the community, and the sustainable outcomes. Drawing on insights from qualitative interviews with twenty-five running event organizers across Greece, supported by the Delphi method to confirm and validate the results, their perceptions of the economic and socio-cultural dimensions are explored. This study identifies a number of strategies that enrich running events and can contribute to the sustainability of off-peak destinations. Additionally, the concept of synergy is identified and explored, emphasizing the importance of local engagement, participant encouragement, and community collaborations. These findings provide a comprehensive understanding of how these factors can influence the sustainability of off-peak destinations. To further validate and extend these findings, the second part of this study performs a quantitative analysis using PLS-SEM, involving eighty local authorities in Greece. The results highlight the mediating role of small-scale event enrichment strategies on the relationship between synergy and destination sustainability. This multifaceted approach indicates the dynamics of sustainable tourism, by examining the case of small-scale running events in the off-peak season. The impact of this balanced approach on the broader achievement of relevant SDGs is also supported. The implications of this research, in terms of its strategic and stakeholder orientation for tourism professionals and government agencies, are also discussed.