A novel study was conducted to elucidate heat-stress responses on a number of hair- and skin-based traits in two indigenous goat breeds using a holistic approach that considered a number of phenotypic and genomic variables. The two goat breeds, Kanni Aadu and Kodi Aadu, were subjected to a simulated heat-stress study using the climate chambers. Four groups consisting of six goats each (KAC, Kaani Aadu control; KAH, Kanni Aadu heat stress; KOC, Kodi Aadu control; and KOH, Kodi Aadu heat stress) were considered for the study. The impact of heat stress on caprine skin tissue along with a comparative assessment of the thermal resilience of the two goat breeds was assessed. The variables considered were hair characteristics, hair cortisol, hair follicle quantitative PCR (qPCR), sweating (sweating rate and active sweat gland measurement), skin histometry, skin-surface infrared thermography (IRT), skin 16S rRNA V3-V4 metagenomics, skin transcriptomics, and skin bisulfite sequencing. Heat stress significantly influenced the hair fiber characteristics (fiber length) and hair follicle qPCR profile (Heat-shock protein 70 (HSP70), HSP90, and HSP110). Significantly higher sweating rate, activated sweat gland number, skin epithelium, and sweat gland number (histometry) were observed in heat stressed goats. The skin microbiota was also observed to be significantly altered due to heat stress, with a relatively higher alteration being noticed in Kanni Aadu goats than in Kodi Aadi goats. Furthermore, the transcriptomics and epigenetics analysis also pointed towards the significant impact of heat stress at the cellular and molecular levels in caprine skin tissue. The higher proportion of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) along with higher differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in Kanni Aadu goats due to heat stress when compared to Kodi Aadu goats pointed towards the better resilience of the latter breed. A number of established skin, adaptation, and immune-response genes were also observed to be significantly expressed/methylated. Additionally, the influence of heat stress at the genomic level was also predicted to result in significant functional alterations. This novel study thereby highlights the impact of heat stress on the caprine skin tissue and also the difference in thermal resilience exhibited by the two indigenous goat breeds, with Kodi Aadu goats being more resilient.