Urban change is inevitable and happens in cities and urban centers. Their land use is continuously modernized because of economic, social,  political and demographic factors. However, urban resilience can provide  opportunities for social interactions and plays a key role in the development  of urban spaces and access to high-quality urban spaces. The link between  the urban and regional aspects and social, economic, cultural, and political  systems is that their characteristics are interconnected with those of urban  resilience, and outer urban space can play a role in resilience through its  ability to reconstruct a balanced environmental state after human  intervention. Thus, urban resilience is one of the most appropriate ways to  control the processes of urban change and absorb its consequences.  This research examines urban resilience and its role in urban  change. Its aim is to study urban resilience and its positive role in urban  change, which affects the organization of a city and the lives of the people. The research is based on the premise that urban resilience has a positive  and effective role in achieving a balance between continuity and change in  space by dispensing some functions and replacing them with others. It examines how urban resilience can help improve the efficiency of urban  space and meet the changing needs and desires of residents without  significantly changing the urban fabric. The research also examines the  external and internal factors that affect the city and strategies for urban  resilience and improving urban space.  It employs a descriptive and analytical method to review and  discuss urban change and urban resilience and deduce the most important  indicators. It then applies these indicators of urban resilience to two case  studies: the Tempelhof Airport in Berlin and the Ataturk Airport in Istanbul. The research substantiated the premise that urban resilience has a  positive and effective role in balancing continuity and change in space by  dispensing one function and replacing it with another.