This article, written by JPT Technology Editor Chris Carpenter, contains highlights of paper SPE 203089, “Adaptive Framework for Resilient Supply Chain Using 3D Printing in the Oil and Gas Industry,” by Yousef Al Tartoor, Adel Khalaf, and Mohammed Awadallah, ADNOC, prepared for the 2020 Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference, Abu Dhabi, held virtually 9–12 November. The paper has not been peer reviewed.
Resilient supply-chain management plays an essential role in organizational success. While an effective supply chain is dependent on logistics, inventory control, and materials handling, it is also strongly interlinked with the use of new technologies that will enhance the complete supply-chain cycle. The complete paper develops a framework that introduces 3D printing in the oil and gas industry, taking into consideration the challenges that this technology is facing to penetrate a generally conservative industry and realizing its potential benefits.

Sourcing Materials Challenges (As-Is Situation)
Additive manufacturing can play a vital role in resolving pains experienced by global aftermarket supply chains. It can help in dealing with obsolescence of materials after the end of service, when the materials are either not available in market, very costly, or missing technical drawings and data sheets. Also, high uncertainty in the planning of demand in oil and gas leads to reordering of unnecessary materials because of high order quantity minimums or having the required parts as a part of kits (usually other items in such kits are nonmoving). Another supply-chain issue is long lead times for purchasing materials, especially internationally. Moreover, additive manufacturing can be a cost-effective solution with less material waste, especially for precious materials. Finally, additive manufacturing can help relieve the problem of working capital being locked up in inventory as a result of accumulation of dead inventory (nonmoving items), leading to scrapping or write-off of unused spare parts.
Fig. 1 compares the cost of traditional methods of reverse engineering with 3D printing. Conventional methods of reverse engineering, such as casting or forging, can be cost-effective for noncomplicated configurations. As the complexity of the part increases, however, the cost increases exponentially, revealing 3D printing as the more cost-effective approach.
Several commodities in the oil and gas industry can be plotted beyond the breakeven point in the figure. Such materials include 2D and 3D impellers, various valves, control-valve plugs and diffusers, casing scrapers, fuel injectors, nozzles, vanes, and blades.


Market Analysis and Self-Assessment
Political, economic, sociological, technological, legal, and environmental (PESTLE) analysis of their operating company was performed by the authors to gain a better understanding of the current situation of the business and external environment factors that may affect the company’s activities without much direct control from the company. From the standpoint of PESTLE analysis, the technological factor seems to be promising, considering reverse engineering and 3D printing of materials on demand. If any certified local workshop or 3D printing facility is able to produce like-original-equipment-manufacturers’ (OEM) spares, then certificates of conformity and warranty should be provided that match OEM warranties (generally 12 months from installation or 18 months from receiving the materials, whichever comes first).
