PurposeThis will not be an overstatement to state that the micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) industry is crucial and the vital driver of the world economy. It covers different fields and dimensions such as defense products, electrical components and low-cost products. The sector plays a vital role in rendering work with low capital expenditure and is one of the emerging pillars of the Indian economy. Given the significance of this sector in contributing towards India's gross domestic product (GDP), it becomes appropriate to resolve all the issues related to MSME on a primary basis for ensuring required support. The recent global pandemic of COVID-19 has impacted this sector to a great extent. This research study targets the MSME industry and points out the directly linked enablers adding to improve the sector's resiliency and sustainability. Therefore, identification and the interrelationship between the MSME enablers need to be studied, which helps make a preliminary list that deals with their impedance benefaction towards resiliency increment.Design/methodology/approachThe writers have done a comprehensive literature analysis of the enablers for the MSME sector to enable effectively and efficiently during emergencies and pandemics. An endeavor has been made on the enablers to order them by utilizing the modified Total Interpretative Structure Modelling (m-TISM) technique. Authentication of this research work highlights the significance of enablers and their position in a hierarchical structure. Further, MICMAC investigation on the recognized enablers is performed to arrange them in the four quadrants on their dependence and driving power.FindingsThe authors have attempted to predict the significance of the MSME sector and its essential contribution to the development of India's economy. The result of m-TISM in the current research work revealed the essential commitment of a hierarchical design dealing with the MSME considering the viewpoint of future development. The well-planned traditional design in the MSME helps establish better government policies and programs and transport infrastructure.Research limitations/implicationsEvery research study has a few restrictions. Likewise, the boundaries of the current study are that inputs collated for fostering the models are from a few specialists that may not mirror the assessment of the whole MSME sector.Practical implicationsThe MSME sector is the developing sector in the current day, and it is needed to keep supporting the sector for the country's development. The current study has set out the functional establishment to improve MSME practicality. In addition, the research highlights the accountability of the MSME authorities to go with the identified enablers having solid driving power for successful usage of the available resources. This will help the MSME development and add value to practitioners and policymakers in the future.Originality/valueThe growth of this sector is essential for the development of the economy and the development of a nation. The current study presents a unique structure that gives a superior comprehension of the enablers. It will help play a crucial role in developing the MSME area. The structure model developed with the assistance of m-TISM and MICMAC examine the identified enablers with inputs from experts in the field. The hierarchy developed from the study recognized the enablers located on their commitment of suitability development of the MSME field.