Abstract: Introduction. The article contains theoretical and empirical data on the study of the relationship between the components of success in life, dispositional optimism and resilience. The relevance of the scientific problem lies in the search and justification of a complex of personal resources that would allow the individual to live most constructively in the modern world. The novelty of the study lies in identifying the relationship of such personality resources as dispositional optimism and resilience with the meta-resource of success in life. The methodological foundations of the meta-resource concept of success in life are the principles of regulatory, subjective and resource approaches. Success in life as a meta-resource of a personality is a psychological regulator that provides a reflexive correlation by a personality of goals with the expected and achieved results of personal activity based on their own value-semantic and emerging socio-cultural conditions through such components as reflexive mechanisms, personality qualities and experiences. The purpose of the study: to study the severity and interrelationships of success in life, dispositional optimism and resilience as resources necessary for the constructive life of young people in the modern world (on the example of cadets and students of educational institutions of higher education). Methods. The study involved 460 respondents aged 18 to 23, including 346 cadets of educational institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia (231 men and 115 women) and 114 students of civil universities (41 men and 73 women). Research methods aimed at identifying personal resources were applied: “Life success” (N. A. Deeva), “Brief Resilience Scale (BRS)” adapted by V. I. Markova, L. A. Aleksandrova, A A. Zolotareva; Dispositional optimism test (DOT-P) (LOT-R by M. Scheyer, C. Carver and M. Bridges) adapted by T. O. Gordeeva, O. A. Sycheva, E. N. Data collection was carried out through a survey using Google forms. Results. Personal resources are expressed at the level of the average age norm, have a large number of relationships and are differentiated depending on gender and the nature of educational and professionalactivities; in the sample of cadets, the most favorable picture is observed; the male student sample showed the most unfavorable picture associated with the low severity of all indicators, fewer significant relationships between them and the discrepancy between the real picture and the subjective assessment of one’s own success; resilience and dispositional optimism are not associated with emotional experiences of success in life.