Context: Electrical distribution networks have undergone several changes in the last decade. Some changes include incorporating distributed energy sources, such as solar photovoltaic (PV) generation systems. It could modify the performance of the electrical network and leads to new challenges such as evaluating the impacts of the PV integration, the response to electrical and climatic disturbances, and the planning and restructuring of networks. Electrical network behavior versus PV integration could be evaluated by quantifying the variation in operation and including network resilience.
Objective: Propose a reference framework to evaluate the resilience of LV electrical networks with PV power injection.
Methodology: This paper addresses the framework for evaluating the performance of a low voltage (LV) electrical network in the face of the integration of PVs. It collects research related to evaluating the resilience of electrical networks on severe climate changes, natural disasters, and typical maneuvers. Then, it proposes a guideline to evaluate the performance of LV electrical networks with the integration of PV generation sources and includes resilience. For this, the determination of resilience evaluation indices is proposed. The indices are obtained from a normalized transformation of the measurable electrical parameters of the networks. The parameters are those that present the most affected by PV integration or are significant in the performance of the networks. Finally, it presents the evaluation of a proposed resilience index for a university building LV network as a case study.
Results: The resilience assessment proposal is applied to a case study. When evaluating the resilience of the voltage at the common coupling point of the PV, an index of 0.84 is obtained, equivalent to 59.8 hours of overvoltage.
Conclusions: It is possible to improve the resilience of the BT network through management strategies. In the case study, a 29% reduction in overvoltage hours was obtained by applying a curtailment strategy to the PV system.
Financing: ECOS-Nord, Minciencias and Universidad Industrial de Santander.