PurposeFamily businesses have contributed significantly to economic growth in various countries, including Indonesia. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic reduced the world economy and caused economic shocks in various business sectors. Women successors face significant challenges in overcoming family business problems during the COVID-19 pandemic, especially in terms of resilience, which is seen as the organization's prominent ability for sustainability in a turbulent environment. Thus, this study aims to explore women's initiatives and propose a framework for family business resilience during the COVID-19 pandemic in Indonesia.Design/methodology/approachThis study uses a qualitative method with a case study approach to explore women's initiatives in family business resilience during the COVID-19 period. Data were collected through in-depth interviews with five women's successors of family businesses in Indonesia. Triangulation was used to test data validity. Meanwhile, data analysis uses the Miles–Huberman technique: data reduction, data display and conclusion drawing/verification.FindingsThis study found that women have the initiative to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic to develop and implement resilience in the family business. This study proposes a framework for factors that enhance family business resilience, including strategic decision-making (adaptive capacity, strategy renewal and appropriation capacity), strategic factors (successor motivation, successor competence and family support) and successor incremental program. Women have a long-term orientation toward the sustainability of their family businesses and can overcome various conflicts. The stereotypical view of women's leadership in family businesses has experienced a shift in which capability and competence are the main factors in recognizing women's leadership.Originality/valueThis study contributes to understanding women's roles in the resilience of family businesses under extreme stress during the pandemic. This study proposes a framework for family business resilience. In addition, this study adds new insights into the specific context of managing family business systems during the COVID-19 pandemic based on the resource-based view (RBV) and strategic management approach.