Accessible Summary

This study describes an Irish‐based study that examined how families of children with Down syndrome living in Ireland adapt to their child’s diagnosis.
We found that good family communication and family hardiness have a positive affect on how families adapt.
Families of children with Down syndrome have the potential to lead full and productive lives and positively adapt to their child’s diagnosis.

AbstractBackgroundDown syndrome is a genetic condition that affects people of all races, nationalities and socioeconomic status. The incidence of Down syndrome in Ireland is estimated to be 1 in 546, with approximately 7,000 people with Down syndrome living in Ireland. While some families of individuals with Down syndrome may find it difficult to adapt, other families adapt successfully and some even thrive. The aim of this study, which is guided by the Resiliency Model of Stress, Adjustment and Adaptation was to examine linkages between family demands, family appraisal, family resources, family problem‐solving communication and family adaptation in families of individuals with Down syndrome living in Ireland.MethodsNinety‐five parents (79 mothers, 16 fathers) of children with Down syndrome aged between 1 and 30 years completed six self‐report measures designed to assess key dimensions of the Resiliency Model of Family Stress, Adjustment and Adaptation.ResultsThis study found that families of children with Down syndrome can adapt and become resilient. Factors found to positively influence this process include family hardiness and affirming family communication. Factors that negatively influenced this process were incendiary family communication and view of the condition impact.ConclusionFamilies of children with Down syndrome have the potential to lead full and productive lives and positively adapt to their child’s diagnosis. Early recognition of the difficulties being experienced by families and the provision of interventions that target and foster positive resiliency traits such as affirmative communication and the development of overall family hardiness are key to adaptation.