AbstractA survey was conducted of gastrointestinal nematode infections and trypanosomosis in Nigerian West African Dwarf (WAD) goats from the savanna region of the country. Animals were screened at two markets, Gboko and Akpagher, from the beginning of April until the end of September, coinciding with the end of the dry season and the first 5 months of the wet season. Of 1054 goats that were examined, 80.5% carried gastrointestinal (GI) nematodes belonging to the genera Haemonchus (61.0%), Oesophagostomum (21.0%) and Trichostrongylus (17.9%). Faecal egg counts (FEC) increased very slowly but significantly from April to maximum levels in September, and varied marginally between the two market sources. The majority of goats (68.8 and 70.1% at the two markets) had low FEC not exceeding 50 eggs/g (epg). FEC did not differ significantly between the sexes or between age classes. Packed cell volume (PCV) also declined significantly with month of the study, but was affected by host sex (a significant month × sex interaction) being generally higher in male animals throughout the period. There was a highly significant negative correlation between log10(FEC+1) and PCV, when all other factors had been taken into account. Body condition scores (BCS) also declined with month of the study, but there was a marked difference between the two sexes, with male animals generally showing a greater stability of BCS across the months compared with females. Trypanosome infections were found in only 4% of the goats and only during the rainy season. Most infections (92.86%) were caused by Trypanosoma brucei alone although T. vivax and T. congolense were occasionally detected. Overall, the majority of goats sampled each month maintained generally good body condition (BCS 3.0–5.0), normal or slightly reduced PCV, even when concurrently infected with trypanosomes and GI nematodes. However, four concurrently infected goats showed signs of overt anaemia during periods of peak infection, during the late rainy season, with marked reductions in PCV ( < 15%). Two of the infected goats were also in poor body condition with BCS of < 2.0. There was no evidence of additive or synergistic pathogenic effects of the two parasites. These results are discussed in the context of the unexpectedly strong resistance and resilience of the savanna WAD ecotype to its native strains of GI nematode and trypanosome parasites.