Super smart grids (SSGs) are a wide area transmission network that mainly uses renewable energy resources (RERs), contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions and supporting the power infrastructure of multiple countries. The SSGs comprise two-way communication between the loads and sources of different countries, and these loads can be mostly served with numerous types of RERs tied with the grids. The RERs will play a pivotal role in the development of future grids and the generation of electricity. However, the main challenge to tackle in these RERs is that they are intermittent in nature. Due to intermittency in these RERs, transient stability issues have become one of the critical research challenges in SSGs. These stability issues are escalated and become more difficult to handle if a network is vulnerable to an arising of different kinds of faults. To address these problems, multiple approaches to enhance transient stability already exist in the current literature. After reviewing the literature, flexible alternating current transmission systems (FACTS) devices proved more promising in improving transient stability. Among FACTSdevices, UPFC is a versatile FACTS device, which provides complete stability to power system networks in the form of series and shunt compensations. Considering this scenario, a hypothetical network for SSGs is designed in this research work based on the interconnection between two countries, i.e., Denmark and Norway, to address the transient stability issues in SSGs. The complete probabilistic model of the system is also designed to enhance the stability of the system. The results clearly showed that the insertion of UPFC is an effective technique to enhance the transient stability and resilience of the power system networks as compared to other purposed techniques in the literature. The main contribution of this paper is that extensive simulation studies employing accurate RERs models are used to analyze and investigate various problems arising due to the integration of many clusters of RERs in SSGs.