Background and Objectives: Iran is considered as a country prone to accidents due to its geographical situations. The health and medical teams at the National and International Crescent Society have always played a central role in responding to crises. In addition to financial and psychological damage, psychological damage is one of the indemnities that people living in affected areas and relief workers pay in natural and man-made disasters. Therefore, improving the mental health of emergency forces is essential.Method: This study was an experimental study with control group. The research community comprised 126 members of the Primary Care teams in the Red Crescent Health Care. Sampling was done randomly from among the health care teams of the Red Crescent society. Subjects in both experimental and control groups completed the Mental Health Questionnaire (GHQ) in the pre-test and post-test. At last, the data were analyzed using SPSS software and descriptive statistical tests such as Kolmogorov-Smirnov, Mann–Whitney U test and Wilcoxon.Results: The results of this study showed that resiliency training has been effective in promoting the mental health of members in the Red Crescent Health Care Teams. Indices of physical symptoms, anxiety, social performance and depression were not significantly different in the control group before and after the training. Indices of physical symptoms, anxiety and social performance were significant in the exerimrntal group before and after the training. However, the depression index was not significant in the experimental group before and after the training (55 = p). Indices of physical symptoms, anxiety, social performance and depression were not significantly different in the pretest between the control and the experimental group. Indices of physical symptoms, anxiety and depression were significant in the post test between the control and experimental groups. However, social performance index was not significantly different between the two groups in the post test (291 = P).Conclusion: Regarding to the fact that the mental health of the members of Red Crescent health care teams have been enhanced by resiliency training and will ultimately affect the future performance of the health and medical personnel in crisis situations, it’s recommended that coherent training courses be held in all the provinces.