AbstractAimStroke is one of the major health challenges affecting life expectancy and quality of life around the world. However, there is limited reporting on the status of some caregivers, including Chinese caregivers of stroke inpatients. Limited information is available on evaluations using the World Health Organization Quality of Life Instrument (WHOQOL) and the effects of resilience and self‐efficacy on WHOQOL score. Therefore, we conducted research to assess the role of resilience on the WHOQOL and to investigate the role of self‐efficacy as a mediator between resilience and WHOQOL score among Chinese caregivers of stroke inpatients.MethodsThis cross‐sectional study to gather data from north‐east and south‐east China was conducted from June 2019 to October 2019. Over 380 caregivers of stroke inpatients at two general public hospitals were interviewed face‐to‐face. About 305 caregivers (80.26%) completed the questionnaire, which included the Ego Resilience Scale, the General Self‐Efficacy Scale, and the brief version of the WHOQOL and asked about demographic characteristics. This study also examined factors associated with WHOQOL score and used linear regression analysis and structure equation modelling to construct direct and indirect models, respectively.ResultsAfter adjustment for demographic characteristics, both resilience and self‐efficacy were positively associated with all WHOQOL domains. Structure equation modelling revealed that self‐efficacy mediated the relationship between resilience and WHOQOL score among caregivers of stroke inpatients.ConclusionChinese caregivers of stroke inpatients exhibited good social health but poor physical, psychological, and environmental health. It is necessary for promoting resilience and improving WHOQOL score through the mediating effect of self‐efficacy. These results suggest that interventions in health care focused on both enhancing resilience and providing self‐efficacy training could effectively improve WHOQOL score.