AbstractBackgroundThe importance of family resilience in the recovery of stroke patients has been demonstrated in numerous studies. However, little is known about post‐stroke family resilience.AimsTo investigate the family resilience of stroke patients from a patient–caregiver dyadic perspective during the first 6 months after stroke.MethodsA total of 288 dyads of patients diagnosed with a first‐episode stroke and their principal caregivers were recruited from neurology departments of 7 tertiary hospitals in Shanghai and Shangqiu, China. Family resilience and family function were assessed during hospitalisation and at 1, 3 and 6 months after stroke. K‐means cluster analysis was used to identify different clusters of family resilience based on family resilience of patients and caregivers during hospitalisation. The STROBE guidelines for observational studies were followed.ResultsThree clusters of family resilience were identified with distinct trajectories: cluster of high resilience (HR), cluster of low resilience (LR) and cluster of discrepant resilience (DR). The level of family function was consistently highest in cluster HR and lowest in cluster with LR at four time points. Most (69.8%) families fell into the cluster with low resilience and low family function. Characteristics such as the Rankin scores and education level of patients, education level of caregivers, family monthly income and living district were different among the three clusters.ConclusionsWe concluded that family resilience was linked to the family functioning of patients with a first‐episode stroke, however, the levels of resilience in most families were low. Factors, including the education level, family income and stroke severity of patients were revealed to influence the family resilience and its development.Relevance to clinical practiceA resilience‐focused approach to family‐related treatment is beneficial for families. Therefore, understanding family resilience among stroke survivors is needed to inform the development of interventions for enhancing the recovery of stroke families.