Purpose: The research article is an extension of the concept related to logistics coordination in distribution networks. The concept of logistics coordination extends the flow mechanisms of network governance presented in the literature so far. The aim of the article is to conceptualize logistics coordination as a set of network coordination flow mechanisms that are to strengthen the resilience of the distribution network. Disruptions analysis was used to assess the resilience of the distribution network. Design/methodology/approach: The first stage of the research was to identify the gap in the research on network governance. The assumptions of logistic coordination indicated in the literature research were the basis for the methodology of empirical research. The research was carried out in the distribution network of household appliances/electronics. The resilience of the distribution network to disruptions was assessed. Disruptions and deviations in the implemented processes were identified on the measurement cards. In assessing the resilience of the network, indicators of timeliness, completeness and orders without damage were used. Subsequently, a cause and effect analysis and FMEA were carried out. The conducted research was completed with recommendations for the coordinator of flows in the distribution network. Findings: Recommendations for the coordinator of the household appliances/electronics distribution network include mechanisms for logistics coordination that strengthen the resilience of the network. Other mechanisms that the coordinator is already using have also been identified. Among the identified mechanisms are both proactive and reactive actions. The set of mechanisms, in accordance with the proposed concept of logistics coordination, includes mechanisms focused on flexible resources, redundancy of partners in the network, redundancy of stocks at the material distribution point, extraordinary transport and forecasting for the entire network. Originality/value: The indicated mechanisms, both those used by the coordinator and those proposed to be used to increase the resilience of the distribution network, go beyond the flow mechanisms proposed in network coordination. Thus, it makes sense to extend the flow mechanisms to include logistics coordination in the broadest sense, which aims to synchronise flows, ensure the continuity of the processes carried out and the coherence of the activities of the network nodes. Keywords: distribution network; network governance; logistic coordination; resilience, disruptions. Category of the paper: research paper.