Abstract
This study was conducted to determine if prostate cancer status, demographic and health factors as well as social support, illness perception, financial toxicity and resilience predict the quality of life (QoL) in men and to ascertain the differences between men with and without cancer of the prostate (CaP) in the QoL subscales and significant predictors of QoL. Quality of life, social support, illness perception, financial toxicity and resilience were assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P), the Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS), Brief Illness Perception Questionnaire (BriefIPQ), The COmprehensive Score for financial Toxicity (Cost Facit) and the Brief Resilience Scale (BRS) respectively. Each scale was assessed and found to possess acceptable levels of reliability (Alpha =.551 to .899). Demographic and clinical information were also collected include age, marital status, religion, education, income, ethnic group, health insurance, employment status and illnesses respondents are being treated for. Additional data collected from the cancer patients were the cancer stage and time since diagnosis. Total population sampling and opportunistic sampling of all willing men with and without CaP respectively were used in recruiting study participants. T-test, Chi-square, multiple regression and multivariate analyses were used for data analysis. Study participants were 237 men, comprising 139 men with CaP and 98 men without CaP with an age range of 53-81 and mean of 66.5. Majority of the respondents were married, Christians, of the Yoruba ethnic group and without health insurance. The two most common illnesses reported were High Blood Pressure (27.42%) and malaria (21.94%). The cancer stage for 71.2% of the men with CaP was not indicated in their case notes. Majority of the men with prostate cancer were within 1 to 5 years since diagnosis (46.8%). Multiple regression analysis revealed that prostate cancer status, ethnicity, employment status, social support, financial toxicity, illness perception and resilience significantly predicted QoL (p&lt;0.05). After controlling for ethnicity and employment status on the multivariate model, there was significant difference between men with and without prostate cancer in physical well-being and functional well-being as well as in social support and illness perception (p&lt; 0.05). This study found that lower financial toxicity, higher social support, positive illness perception and resilience significantly predicted better QoL in men. Specifically, men with CaP had significantly lower physical wellbeing, functional well-being and higher negative illness perception compared to men without CaP. Psychosocial interventions to improve QoL in men with CaP should employ strategies that can help enhance the positive illness perception of these men.
Citation Format: Elizabeth Akin-Odanye, Chidiebere Ogo, Faoziyat Sulaiman, Suleiman Lawal, Motolani Ogunsanya, Adamu Abdullahi, Folakemi Odedina. A comparative study of quality of life, social support, illness perception, financial toxicity and resilience in Nigerian men with and without cancer of the prostate [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the AACR Virtual Conference: Thirteenth AACR Conference on the Science of Cancer Health Disparities in Racial/Ethnic Minorities and the Medically Underserved; 2020 Oct 2-4. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2020;29(12 Suppl):Abstract nr PO-118.