Indonesia is an agricultural country which mostly consists of the agricultural sector, one of which is coffee. Central Aceh district is one of the largest coffee-producing districts in Indonesia. As a coffee-producing area, many innovations in processed coffee products are produced from this area. However, the lack of economic income of the Indonesian people is one of the main problems caused by the low level of education and lack of knowledge as farmers. This reality is interesting to study, along with the presence of the government in its efforts to overcome it. One of them is the empowerment of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) for the Coffee Ground Home Industry. The author conducted research on Family Economic Resilience Policy Through Empowerment of Coffee Ground Home Industries in the Home Industry Group of Jaluk Village, Ketol District, Central Aceh Regency. This study uses descriptive qualitative research methods, which provide a complete picture of the data obtained from observations, interviews, and documentation. The research objects interviewed were policy makers, stakeholders and relevant agencies involved in empowerment activities in Central Aceh District. Based on the research that the author conducted, the following findings were obtained: First, Kampung Jaluk, Ketol District, Central Aceh Regency was the first area as a village to cultivate Ateng Jaluk variety coffee. Second, the form of Home Industry empowerment was initially carried out in the form of assistance by the government, then at the capacity building stage, namely the stage of providing knowledge and insight as well as training to improve individual skills in processing ground coffee. And finally the empowerment stage, at this stage the Home Industry group in Jaluk Village gives freedom to its members, the community is given the freedom to apply the knowledge that has been obtained independently or to continue to build their business, in other words make their own ground coffee production.