Once the high-speed railway tunnel is put into use, its resilience will determine the possibility of permanent safety of the tunnel due to the closure of the structural space of the high-speed railway tunnel in service. Resilience theory is introduced into a risk analysis of operating high-speed rail tunnels to improve the ability to respond to risks in operating high-speed rail tunnels and to relieve the aging phenomenon caused by changes in the tunnel with time. First, an evaluation framework for the safety resilience of existing high-speed railway tunnels is constructed. Starting from the attributes of resilience such as resistance, adaptability, and resilience, and considering the characteristics of high-speed railway tunnels, protective measures, emergency management measures, and other factors, we fit the risk factors and probability of accident type of the high-speed railway tunnel and establish a tunnel safety resilience evaluation index system with 10 indexes. Secondly, the method of information fusion is used to combine subjective weighting and objective weighting. Then, the comprehensive weight of the evaluation index is obtained based on the principle of minimum discriminant information. Thirdly, the system resilience evaluation model based on the TOPSIS improved fuzzy matter-element is constructed to determine the classification criteria of resilience. On this basis, based on the temporal and spatial variability of the ductile tunnel, the concepts of ductile transition and ductile attenuation are introduced and the tunnel toughness optimization model is established to suppress the attenuation situation, enhance the transition ability, and then improve the system resilience level. On this basis, an optimal lifting scheme is obtained. Finally, taking Ai-Min tunnel of Ha-Mu high-speed railway as the engineering background, the flexibility of the resilience system is calculated, and the resilience grade (3) of the rock system surrounding the tunnel is obtained. Combined with the numerical model, improvement measures for specific tunnel facilities are proposed. The results show that the Ai-Min tunnel system has a general ability to resist external intrusion and prevent disasters, and the resilience level is general. It should focus on improving the resilience level of the transition index. The resilience evaluation results of the evaluation model are consistent with the actual situation of the project.