Purpose: The study examined the role of employees’ resilience and organisational culture in the sustainable performance of tertiary hospitals in Oyo State, Nigeria, it examined the nature of relationship that exist among employees resilience level, organisational culture and sustainable performance; examined the influence of employees resilience level on sustainable performance; determined the impact of organisational culture on tertiary hospitals sustainable performance; investigated the moderating role of organisational culture in the relationship between employee resilience level and tertiary hospitals sustainable performance; and examined the impact of medical personnel resilience on patient satisfaction in tertiary hospitals. The conditions of the health workers in Nigeria necessitated this study in order to draw the attention of policy makers and tertiary hospitals Management to the need of coming to the aid of health workers in terms of improved services.
 
Theoretical framework:  The aim of employees’ resilience in the tertiary hospital is to ensure effective performance of the health workers and for them to be able to withstand or recover quickly from difficult conditions in the world of works. Noting that they experience serious stress as a result of the mass relocation of health workers in Nigeria to the western world for greener pastures which therefore put pressures on the ones on ground and finding it difficult to cope with the rigor of work. The study proffers solutions to the difficulties being experience by the health workers. When compared with the developed countries, health workers welfare are well taken care of which the reverse is the case in Nigeria.
 
Methodology/Design/Approach: This study adopted quantitative design through a survey approach to answer the research questions raised. Questionnaire was made use of to gather data. The data collected were analyzed using descriptive and inferential statistical techniques of Social Package of Social Sciences, The population of the study comprises of two (2) sets of respondents which are Medical Personnel and Patients, 338 Medical Personnel and 50 patients were given questionnaire and wee returned.
 
Findings: The outcome of the findings indicated that employees’ resilience level has a statistically significant positive and low correlation with sustainable performance ( ). Moreover, employees resilience has a statistically significant positive correlation with organizational culture ( ). In addition, organizational culture had a positive and statistically significant relationship with sustainable performance ( ). The result revealed that organizational culture did not moderate the relationship between employees’ resilience level and tertiary hospital sustainable performance ( ). This implies that organizational culture is not a moderator between employees’ resilience level and tertiary hospital sustainable performance. The results also revealed that patients are satisfied with the communication style of the medical personnel (100%), the explanation mode of the medical personnel (85%), the ways by which the medical personnel relate with them (95%), general relationship (100%), the technical skills of the medical personnel (80%) and awareness of their health issue (100%). The medical personnel are well trained and cultured through their professional ways of discharging their duties to safe lives. It also, charged the Nigerian Government to improve in the working conditions of the health workers.
 
Research, Practical & Social implications: The study resolves by implication that, employees’ resilience and organizational culture have significant relationship with sustainable performance while employees’ resilience level has a statistically significant positive correlation with organizational culture. Employees’ resilience through contextual and behavioural dimensions do not significant predictors on sustainable performance while cognitive dimension significantly predicts of tertiary hospital sustainable performance. The study also clarified that organizational culture is not a moderator of the relationship between employees’ resilience and tertiary hospital sustainable performance. Patients are satisfied with the medical personnel service delivery in these tertiary hospitals. It recommends among others, that medical personnel’s behavioural and contextual dimensions of employees’ resilience should be further enhanced by hospital stakeholders, especially the management to enhance sustainable performance.
 
Originality/Value: The study added value to body of knowledge because its implications both practical and social affirmed that without creating enabling environment, organizational culture, the level of employees’ resilience is advanced and better and appropriate management strategies, organizational culture that will meet up with its optimization level in terms service delivery and effective welfare of health workers should be put in place from time ti time. The study as recommends that medical personnel’s behavioural and contextual dimensions of employees’ resilience level should be further enhanced by hospital stakeholders, especially the management to enhance sustainable performance.