This study examines the serial multiple mediation of social appearance anxiety, positive perfectionism, and negative perfectionism in the relationship between self-compassion and resilience to observe the psychosocial development of children attending secondary school. The model of this study, which examines the role of social appearance anxiety, positive perfectionism, and negative perfectionism in the relationship between secondary school children's self-compassion and resilience, is a relational research type, which is one of the quantitative research types. Relational research method is used to determine the relationships between variables and to predict possible outcomes. A total of 497 children, 283 girls (59.1%) and 196 (40.9%) boys were reached for the study group. 55 (11.5%) of the children stated that they had a low socioeconomic level, 399 (83.3%) had a medium socioeconomic level, and 25 (5.2%) had a high socioeconomic level. Children's ages range from 10 to 14 years old. In this study, Self-Compassion Scale-Short Form, Psychological Resilience Scale, Social Appearance Anxiety Scale, Positive-Negative Perfectionism Scale, and Personal Information Form were used to collect data. Firstly, descriptive statistics for all variables were calculated, and the relations between variables were determined using Pearson Product Moments Correlation analysis. Mediation analyses were performed in line with the recommendations of Preacher and Hayes. This method is used by loading the "Multiple Mediation (INDIRECT)" macro into the IBM SPSS Statistic 22 software. Model 6, one of the serial multiple mediator variable models, was used in the analysis. Finally, according to the results of serial multiple analysis, it was observed that the mediation role of social appearance anxiety, positive perfectionism, and negative perfectionism was significant in the relationship between self-compassion and psychological resilience. The model shows that children with high self-compassion will experience less social appearance anxiety, have more positive and less negative perfectionism, and thus have higher psychological resilience.