Based on the construction status of the college counselor team, this article analyzes the problems that exist in the team construction. Based on the basic characteristics of the competency perspective and with the aim of improving the learning resilience of medical students, this study aims to conduct research on the construction of the team of college student counselors. The aim is to demonstrate the mission and responsibility of counselors in college student management through the improvement of the team construction plan and the improvement of counselors’ comprehensive literacy, and to promote the steady development of college teaching management work.In the context of the reform of the education system in universities, college counselors, as grassroots forces in university management, can construct ideological and political education management work tailored to the characteristics of students, laying the foundation for the growth of college students. However, due to the heavy learning curriculum and high employment pressure of medical students, they prioritize postgraduate entrance exams over employment. Faced with conflicts between postgraduate entrance exams and clinical internships, there are psychological conflicts among students. The lack of autonomy and poor learning resilience in learning and daily life have an impact on the healthy growth of medical students. By continuously improving the team of college counselors, the characteristics, functions, influencing factors, methods, and carriers of enhancing the academic resilience of medical students and the construction of the counselor team have been clarified. The counselor’s service and education function has been fully utilized, combining practical problem-solving with ideological problem-solving. Focusing on the impact of academic resilience on students’ mental health, teachers and parents are encouraged to form a good learning psychology for students, Ensuring the healthy growth of college students plays a crucial role. Therefore, college student counselors should recognize the development status of the times, adhere to innovative ideas, build a counselor team training model based on the improvement of college students’ learning resilience, combine the characteristics of the competency model, and ensure the efficiency of various work execution through the cultivation of their own comprehensive abilities and the strengthening of work competence, to improve the overall level of counselor team construction, in order to meet the high level, distinctive, and The talent needs of international research universities.