Introduction. The relevance of the study is due to the increasing need for the personnel of the law enforcement agency to demonstrate resilience and maintain a state of internal well-being for the successful solution of professional tasks. This requires early diagnosis of the severity of not only contraindications to the profession, but also resource, positive individual characteristics. The purpose of the study was to identify the relationship between resilience and self-assessment of emotional and personal well-being of cadets of the Ural Institute of the State Fire Service of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Russia. Materials and methods. 169 cadets of the institute enrolled in the 1st year of study, aged 17-18 years, were examined. The psychodiagnostic methods "Self-assessment of emotional and personal well-being" (in two versions: " SEPWB -9" for 9 points and " SEPWB -24" for 24 points), a test of resilience were used. Methods of mathematical statistics: descriptive analysis, correlation analysis, factor analysis, regression analysis, Pearson chi-square, Cronbach's alpha. Results. With a high self-esteem of the majority of cadets of their own resilience, there are isolated cases of low ratings of this characteristic (Mmin = 69, with M ± σ = 109.42 ± 13.90). Respondents generally favorably assess their emotional and personal well-being. However, isolated cases of emotional and personal distress were identified (SEPWB-9. Mmin = 18, at M ± σ = 29.50 ± 4.93; SEPWB-24 Mmin = 55, at M ± σ = 82.25 ± 11.26). According to the results of the SEPWB-9 and SEPWB-24 methods, it is possible to predict the total indicator "resilience" of the Resilience Test (the probability of the forecast being correct is 58% according to the indicators of the SEPWB-9 method and 69% according to the indicators of the SEPWB-24 method). The resilience of cadets of the Institute of the State Fire Service of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Russia is closely related to their emotional and personal well-being (p ≤ 0.001).  Conclusion. The resilience test and the SEPWB-24 methodology can be included in the list of additional methods of professional psychological selection, as well as in the list of methods of in-depth psychodiagnostic examination of cadets of state educational institutions of higher professional education of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Russia with the III category of professional psychological fitness.