Purpose: This knows the influence of business ethics, spiritual behavior, external support and information technology on business resilience and quality of life of logging SMEs during the Covid-19 pandemic in Badung District.
 
Theoretical framework: The number of wood SMEs during the Covid-19 pandemic in Badung District shows the low business resilience of wood SMEs, which may affect their quality of life. small and medium-sized wood enterprises. Business ethics of small and medium enterprises in the wood industry based on local wisdom in rural areas, the importance of spiritual behavior, external support and the development of information technology are Important studies affecting business resilience and quality of life of small and medium-sized enterprises in the wood industry during the Covid-19 pandemic in Badung. Regent.
 
Design/Methodology/Approach: This study is quantitative and uses structural equation modeling (SEM) analysis. The respondents of this study are 804 medium-sized industrial small and medium enterprises. And the location of this study is in Bandung Regency.
 
Findings: This shows that, through experiments, it can be seen that the variable of business resilience has a significant influence, each increase in the value of business resilience will improve the quality of life of medium-sized enterprises. and small wood industry, both in terms of social and psychological support. and mental conditions. health,  safety and income levels during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
Research, Practical & Social implications: This shows that, through experiments, it can be seen that the variable of business resilience has a significant influence, each increase in the value of business resilience will improve the quality of life of medium-sized enterprises. and small wood industry, both in terms of social and psychological support. and mental conditions. health,  safety and income levels during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
Originality/Value:  The performance of wood SMEs will gradually begin to improve thanks to various initiatives undertaken both operationally and commercially.