INTRODUCTION: In Iran, natural disasters are constantly increasing; however, no research has clearly explained the indicators of resilience in such situations. Resilience enhances internal strengths and protects against potential threats to maintain and promote the health of the community. The present study aimed to design a crisis resilience model based on the institutionalization of organizational learning for managers and experts.
METHODS: The present exploratory analysis study was performed on a sample size of 215 which was calculated using Cochranchr('39')s formula. In order to design a crisis resilience model based on the institutionalization of organizational learning, first, the general texts of applied sociology and scientific databases were studied. Afterward, 450 concepts regarding the general institutionalization of culture were extracted and provided for the experts in universities and the Red Crescent Society using the Delphi method. Subsequently, the experts agreed upon 73 concepts regarding the institutionalization of the culture of resilience based on organizational learning. Finally, a questionnaire was prepared based on these 73 concepts.
FINDINGS: The first step was the performance of the exploratory factor analysis in the SPSS version22 software on 73 concepts which resulted in the emergence of five main components, including management, objectives, culture, strategy, and education of crisis resilience. These components were identified and named according to the review of the related literature. In the second stage, the DEMATEL technique and software were used to determine the importance and effectiveness of the criteria. Eventually, in the third stage, the LISREL software was used to design the crisis resilience model based on the institutionalization of organizational learning.
CONCLUSION: First, the exploratory factor analysis was performed in SPSS software version22 and the effectiveness and susceptibility of each factor were determined using the DEMATEL software. Subsequently, the model components, including the culture, strategy, education, and objectives of resilience were used as the input of LISREL software and the resilience model was designed based on the institutionalization of organizational learning.