AbstractBackgroundQualitative studies have shown that peer support is of value to parents and other caregivers of children with neurodisability. However, this value likely cascades to other areas such as family well‐being. There are various forms and functions of peer support, and how they operate is not well understood for this population. Models of family resilience theory can be helpful to situate the impact of parent‐to‐parent peer support processes within a family context to further explain how this type of assistance is beneficial. Our study aimed to describe the specific pathways by which peer support may contribute to resilience in families and how processes embedded in this type of support can enrich family resilience theory.MethodsUsing reflexive thematic analysis, we examined transcripts and notes from 19 interviews with parents of children with neurodisabilities regarding their involvement in a large (n = 300) and predominantly volunteer‐based peer support network in western Canada. Using an inductive coding method, we identified patterns in the data. Following a process of reflection and discussion, we then used a deductive approach to situate themes within a family resilience theoretical framework.ResultsWe identified three main themes from the data: Modifying belief systems through shared lived experience; navigating resources; and negotiating resources and engaging in social discourses. These themes confirm previous findings in the literature, and the subthemes demonstrate how they may contribute to broader family‐level experiences beyond that of the parent.ConclusionWe present a model for understanding how processes in peer support can be understood within a family resilience theoretical framework. We also propose that the reciprocity embedded within peer support builds upon previous concepts within family resilience theory. Future studies can use this theoretical framework to guide research questions to further explore the effects of peer support at the family and community levels.