AbstractBackgroundCognitive resilience (CR) refers to the ability to maintain a better‐than‐expected cognitive level or slope of cognitive change based on the degree of brain pathology. Different approaches have been used to quantify CR as a continuous variable. These approaches examine cognitive level at a single point or examine cognitive change over time irrespective of cognitive level and assuming a linear change. We propose a continuous measure of CR that reflects cognitive level while taking into account the entire observed non‐linear cognitive trajectory.MethodWe used data from 1220 individuals with ≥2 measures of global cognition and brain autopsy in the Religious Order Study and Rush Memory and Aging Project to compute three versions of CR. The CR1 focuses on cognitive level at a single point. It was calculated as the standardized residuals obtained proximate to death in a linear regression model, with demographics and 8 neuropathologies as covariates. The CR2 represents the residual (random) slope of cognition obtained in a latent process mixed (LPM) model assuming a linear cognitive change. Finally, the proposed CR3 examines cognitive levels over time. It was computed as the mean of differences between person‐specific and marginal error‐free predictions of cognition from a LPM model with time approximated by natural cubic splines. The LPMs of CR2 and CR3 included interactions of demographics and pathology with time. To assess the validity of our approach, we compared the continuous associations of CRs with established reserve risk factors (e.g., cognitive activity) and dementia risk factors (e.g., depressive symptoms, neuroticism) at cohort baseline.ResultThe proposed CR3 was highly correlated with CR1 (r=0.81) and moderately correlated with CR2 (r=0.51). The established reserve risk factors were all associated with CR1 and CR3 but not with CR2, and effect estimates were largest for CR3. All CRs were negatively associated with depressive symptoms and neuroticism (all‐P<.0004), but none was associated with ApoE‐ε4 (all‐P>.508). In a sensitivity analysis, we showed that findings remained consistent when randomly reducing repeated measures of cognition or allowing only a 10‐year follow‐up.ConclusionIncorporating longitudinal cognitive levels is an alternate way to quantify CR in cohort studies.