ABSTRACT

Aim
Evaluating effects of a denture cleanser on weight, surface roughness and tensile bond strength on two resilient lining materials.


Materials and methods
Specimens of heat cure acrylic resin were prepared to verify weight change, surface roughness and tensile bond strength. Specimens were divided into four groups: Relined with resilient liner Visco-gel, soft liner immersed in Clinsodent denture cleanser and water and evaluated immediately, 24 hours, 7 and 15 days. Weight changes, roughness and tensile bond strength were determined and data submitted to statistical analysis.


Results
Visco-gel specimens immersed in water (group 1) have shown significant increased surface roughness than those immersed in Clinsodent (group 3) during 24 hours, 7 and 15 days. The soft liner specimens immersed in water (group 2) have shown increased surface roughness than those immersed in Clinsodent (group 4) during 24 hours and 7 days. Visco-gel specimens immersed in water have shown significant increased tensile bond strength during 7 and 15 days than those immersed in Clinsodent. The soft liner specimens immersed in water have shown increased tensile bond strength than those immersed in Clinsodent during immediately, 24 hours and 7 days.


Conclusion
Within limitations of this study, specimens immersed in Clinsodent demonstrated increased weight changes compared with water. Specimens immersed in water demonstrated lesser surface roughness and tensile bond strength compared with specimens immersed in Clinsodent.


Clinical significance
Resilient denture liners and denture cleansers are most commonly used materials in prosthodontics. Caution should be taken while selecting the materials which cause the detrimental changes on properties of the materials.


How to cite this article
Huddar DA, Hombesh MN, Sandhyarani B, Chandu GS, Nanjannawar GS, Shetty R. Effect of Denture Cleanser on Weight, Surface Roughness and Tensile Bond Strength of Two Resilient Denture Liners. J Contemp Dent Pract 2012;13(5):607-611.
