Abstract

Background
Globally the COVID-19 pandemic presented major difficulties for self-employed people such as financial decline, restrictions and business closures. A plethora of financial support measures was rolled out worldwide to support them, but there is a lack of research looking at the effectiveness of the policy measures on small businesses. The aim of the study was to compare policies addressing government financial support in Sweden and Canada to get an understanding of how different governmental financial support measures enhanched self-employed people's resilience and improved their chances to manage the pandemic. In addition, individual interviews with Swedish and Canadian self-employed people were conducted to get an understanding of how they experienced the support measures and how these measures factored into their resilience during and after the restrictions had ended.


Methods
We conducted a mixed-method study encompassing document analysis and semi-structured interviews with self-employed people in Sweden and Canada. The constant comparative method guided the data analysis and documentary and interview data were analysed together. Three categories were formed: Welfare protection and effects, Self-employed well-being and Agility during COVID-19, based on their ability to represent the overall sense of the phenomena.


Results
Key results were that self-employed people in both countries unable to telework, were less resilient during the pandemic due to financial problems, restrictions and lockdowns, and that this negatively affected their well-being.


Conclusions
Potential future policy responses in Sweden and Canada to support self-employed people during crises or adversity should consider the diversity among small businesses and tailor programmes towards viable businesses in greatest need of support, such as those in businesses unable to telework.


Key messages
• Self-employed people in Sweden and Canada unable to telework, were less resilient during the pandemic due to financial problems, restrictions and lockdowns.
• Future policy responses to support self-employed people during adversity should tailor programmes towards viable businesses in greatest need of support.
