Introduction:The Sydney North Health Network (SNHN) covers an area of 350 square miles in Eastern Australia. It is one of 31 Primary Health Networks (PHNs) across Australia. The purpose of PHNs is to improve access to primary healthcare particularly those at risk of poor health outcomes. During disasters these vulnerable groups may be even more disadvantaged. As part of SNHN's role in enhancing the wellbeing, resilience, and preparedness of communities and primary healthcare providers during disasters, SNHN is focusing on recovery and resilience initiatives that build on local strengths, while addressing challenges.Method:The aim of this community engagement research was to determine the impact of recent extreme weather events on the community, and identify strategies to improve wellbeing, resilience and preparedness. The research was approached through a co-design process to explore assets, strengths and vulnerabilities within vulnerable community members during disasters, and to ascertain their perspective on their needs during disasters. SNHN funded a well-established local community organization to conduct surveys and focus groups with the SNHN community to inform future community-led programs to support individuals and communities in disasters.Results:Participants considered impacts on mental and physical health, children, the environment, and property as key challenges. Equally, they acknowledged they didn't start as a "blank slate", but came to the disaster with considerable individual and community strengths and assets, that enabled their resilience, including numerous resources to support social capital. Person-centered, community-inclusive planning, preparedness, and connectedness was seen as key solution.Conclusion:In order to promote and enhance the wellbeing, resilience, and preparedness of communities and primary healthcare providers, successful recovery and resilience initiatives should build on local strengths, while addressing challenges. Individuals and communities should be integral in designing programs to build their local resilience and wellbeing, as they know their attributes and strengths, and their needs.