AbstractBackgroundThe association between cerebral blood supply and cognition has gained increasing interest, considering the remarkable anatomical variability of the circle of Willis. Thus, qualitative classifications of the arteries contributing to the hippocampal supply has been performed in previous studies to determine whether the additional presence of vessels might translate into cognitive differences and cerebral structural changes when coexisting with vascular pathology, to the extent of constituting a cognitive reserve. Nevertheless, the promising results in these regards are not without controversy. Hence, Vessel Distance Mapping (VDM) is here introduced, in order to ascertain the correlation of VDM‐metrics with each other and with cognitive status, as well as to elucidate which metrics have the greatest impact on cognition.MethodA battery of cognitive tests was used (including ADAScog and MoCA) in 51 subjects (71 ± 8.5yrs) with (n=20) and without (n=31) cerebral small vessel disease. Their hippocampal‐related vessels were manually segmented by using high‐resolution 7T Time‐of‐Flight‐MRI. Vessel distance maps were generated by computing the distances of each voxel to its nearest vessel, obtaining 3 VDM‐metrics: global‐VDM (vessel density surrogate), VS‐VDM (vessel‐specific supply), and COMD (distance to the center of mass, reflecting vessel distribution). Hippocampal masks were used to assess the whole and subregional hippocampus. Regression models were applied for evaluating the interrelation among the metrics, and their association with cognition.ResultHigh correlations were observed for intra‐metric comparisons, as well as when comparing whole hippocampal vs. sub‐hippocampal metrics. Greater values of VDM‐metrics reflecting higher distances among vessels were associated with poorer cognitive outcomes only in subjects affected by vascular pathology (global‐VDM R²=0.7248, p=0.0054; COMD R²=0.7248, p=0.0013). Metrics revealing vascular distribution (p=0,0053) and density (p=0,0169) were the most influential on cognition, and in this context those for the whole hippocampus predominated over the subregional ones.ConclusionA mixed contribution of vessel distribution and density is proposed to confer cognitive resilience, in a way consistent with anatomical fundamentals and with previous research findings. VDM provides a new, structure‐driven approach on which to raise new questions supported by the statistical robustness of a quantitative method with potential clinical implications.