The human gut microbiome is a complex ecosystem, densely colonised by thousands of
            microbial species. It varies among individuals and depends on host genotype and
            environmental factors, such as diet and antibiotics. In this review, we focus on
            stability and resilience as essential ecological characteristics of the gut microbiome
            and its relevance for human health. Microbial diversity, metabolic flexibility,
            functional redundancy, microbe–microbe and host–microbe interactions seem to be critical
            for maintaining resilience. The equilibrium of the gut ecosystem can be disrupted by
            perturbations, such as antibiotic therapy, causing significant decreases in functional
            richness and microbial diversity as well as impacting metabolic health. As a
            consequence, unbalanced states or even unhealthy stable states can develop, potentially
            leading to or supporting diseases. Accordingly, strategies have been developed to
            manipulate the gut microbiome in order to prevent or revert unhealthy states caused by
            perturbations, including faecal microbiota transplantation, supplementation with
            probiotics or non-digestible carbohydrates, and more extensive dietary modifications.
            Nevertheless, an increasing number of studies has evidenced interindividual variability
            in extent and direction of response to diet and perturbations, which has been attributed
            to the unique characteristics of each individual’s microbiome. From a clinical,
            translational perspective, the ability to improve resilience of the gut microbial
            ecosystem prior to perturbations, or to restore its equilibrium afterwards, would offer
            significant benefits. To be effective, this therapeutic approach will likely need a
            personalised or subgroup-based understanding of individual genetics, diet, gut
            microbiome and other environmental factors that might be involved.