Abstract
Background
Adolescents living with HIV (ALHIV) in Malawi experience multiple challenges associated with their illness and various social, environmental, economic and cultural factors. In exploring their various medical concerns and social vulnerabilities, we consider the role of multiple services in creating a pathway for resilience.

Methods
Multiple methods and case studies allowed for triangulation of evidence and provided a holistic understanding of resilience among adolescents with complex needs. The research methods included: (1) a survey to identify examples of young people with complex needs, (2) qualitative interviews and field notes to further explore these needs, (3) patient files and health passports to identify clinical challenges, and (4) ecomapping exercises to personalize cases and identify resilience-enabling resources and supports. We present four case studies to highlight the complex experiences and access to services of ALHIV, and to illustrate their growing power and decision-making capacity over time.

Results
Adversity experienced by ALHIV varied by gender, family situation, years of schooling, and use of teen-clubs for support. The two female adolescents emphasised their need to be accepted and how this impacted sexuality and reproduction. The two males illustrated how ideas of masculinity influenced their sexual practice and involvement with health services and the correctional justice system. Multiple risks (alcohol use, sexual activities) and complex needs (belonging, having a purpose in life/productive activities, autonomy, desire for offspring) influence pathways to resilience. ALHIV were able to strengthen their own wellbeing by resisting negative behaviours and peer pressure and caregiver interactions through ‘strategic silence’.

Conclusion
ALHIV experienced self-transformation as a result of taking ART, with fewer severe episodes of illness and distressing skin conditions. Continuous engagement at the teen-club clinic transformed both productive activities and social relationships among ALHIV as they set life goals, gained a sense of empowerment, requested SRH services, and formed intimate relationships. These transformative opportunities allowed them to learn ways of minimizing risk of reinfection and violence, and of navigating health worker–caregiver–adolescent interactions.
