Driving systems for hybrid cars and electric vehicles equipped with electric motors have different structures and characteristics. In the vast majority of hybrids, depending on the driving mode, the torque on the wheels of the car can be generated separately by both the internal combustion engine and the electric motor, or by working together.
Based on the research results it is established that at the moment of starting the electric motor, the torque in the transmission sections steeply increases to 17 N•m, and for about 1 s decreases to the value of 7 N•m. In the period from 4 to 5.5 s, the torque increases to 14 N•m, which is explained by the overcoming of the inertial load during acceleration of the driven weight, and rapidly decreases to the value of 4 N•m, which corresponds to the consolidated moment of resistance to movement. The electromagnetic moment of electric motor thus also increases steeply in the initial stage of starting the motor up to 66 N•m and after 1 s decreases to the value of 15 N•m. After 5.5 s there is an increase in the moment to the value of 66 N•m and after 5.8 s it stabilizes and ranges from -6 to 22 N•m. In turn, the calculations for an electromechanical transmission equipped with a resilient-elastic coupling showed that the maximum torque in its sections Т2 during the start-up period decreased to 9 N•m, and the acceleration time to a steady turning velocity of the driven weight slightly increased to 6.8 s. The torque that occurs in the transmission sections during acceleration to a steady velocity does not exceed 13 N•m. The torque in the resilient-elastic coupling sections during the start-up period does not exceed 10 N•m, and its value, upon reaching the steady motion of the driven weight, is slightly less than 5 N•m. Peak torque in the resilient-elastic coupling sections Т1 reaches 22 N•m, while in the transmission Т2 it is 13 N•m, which confirms the efficiency of resilient-elastic coupling operation. 
Thus, the use of resilient-elastic coupling in an electromechanical transmission can reduce the amplitude of the torque in the drive sections during the start-up period by about 1.9 times, as compared to the amplitude of the torque without resilient-elastic coupling, and reduce the peak torque of the transmission sections by 1.7 times.
Keywords: asynchronous electric motor, dynamic model, mathematical model, simulation model, torque.