This study was conducted to establish the potential factors limiting the adoption of climate-resilient agricultural practices in and around the Oruchiga settlement. It was a descriptive study employing both qualitative and quantitative approaches for data collection and analysis. Information was gathered from a sample of 322 respondents and other key informants using questionnaires and interviews. Data was analysed using Microsoft EXCEL and SPSS Version 21.0 to generate both descriptive and inferential statistics. The study identified the different climate-resilient agricultural practices used by smallholder farmers including agroforestry, the use of improved crop varieties and livestock breeds, water-smart technologies, soil fertility management, the use of compost and organic pesticides and small-scale irrigation. The study also found that age, family size (labour), size of land, gender, off-farm activities, group membership and access to credit were some of the potential factors limiting the adoption of climate-resilient agricultural practices in the camp. In conclusion, the study confirmed that different climate-resilient agricultural practices are being used by farmers in the area, and these practices have significantly supported food production systems. Despite their great role in agricultural production, the adoption is still constrained by several factors. The study therefore, recommends government to introduce policies that enable farmers to own and cultivate large-scale farms to increase output. Revisiting land policies is paramount if farmers in the area must increase production through adopted climate-resilient agricultural practices. Small-sized land was one of the reasons farmers failed to use recommended practices; therefore, increasing production per unit area through opening new arable land areas would mean that farmers have enough space to try new technologies/practices. The study also recommends that the government 1) consider the farmers’ willingness and factors impeding their practice before introducing climate-resilient agricultural practices; 2) create awareness among the farmers about the overall benefits and challenges of climate-resilient agricultural practices; 3) integrate newly introduced practices with farmer-friendly indigenous practices; and 4) follow down-top approach and include farmers in any decision-making processes