OBJECTIVES/GOALS: Caregivers of patients with ventricular assist devices (VAD) are invaluable contributors to patient health, but they may experience psychological symptoms or worsening quality of life related to caregiving. We aimed to explore VAD caregiving burden and resilience comparing high and low burden patient-caregiver dyads. METHODS/STUDY POPULATION: Using a convergent mixed-methods design, we conducted semi-structured interviews and collected self-reported surveys from patient-caregiver dyads. Patients (n=10, mean age 55.8 years) were mostly white males implanted as destination therapy. Caregivers (n=10, mean age 52.6) were mostly white females. Most dyads were spousal (n=6). Caregiver burden was measured with the Zarit Burden Interview Scale, using the median score to categorize lower and higher burden dyads (median = 12, IQR = 8). Data were analyzed using deductive and inductive coding for thematic analysis. RESULTS/ANTICIPATED RESULTS: Lower and higher burden dyads described the shared burden experience of 1) hyper-vigilance and uncertainty immediately post-implant and 2) changing relationship roles. Lower burden dyads were more likely to able to take on responsibilities outside of caregiving. Contextual differences among higher burden dyads included higher financial strain, less social support, worse quality of life (both patients and caregivers) and worse heart failure severity compared to lower burden dyads. All dyads were resilient, using coping strategies like cognitive reframing, positivity, and adaptation to new roles. Higher burden dyads were more vulnerable to coping fatigue and were more likely to express that the VAD had irreversibly changed their life. DISCUSSION/SIGNIFICANCE: VAD caregiver-patient dyads differ in their levels of caregiver burden. Burden experiences and resilience mechanisms may inform future interventions to reduce caregiver burden in diverse VAD dyads. Knowledge of the caregiver experience and factors contributing to burden can inform the healthcare team in providing essential caregiver support.