AbstractSpecies that are adapted to specific disturbance regimes may be sensitive to changes such as severity, frequency, and extent of ecosystem perturbation. Along range margins, these sensitivities may be exacerbated by concurrent changes in climate resulting in loss of resilience and shifts to alternative ecosystem states. Pinus banksiana (jack pine) is a serotinous species dependent on fire disturbance to open cones, release seed, reduce understory competition, and expose mineral soil. The Altona Flat Rock in northern New York is a globally rare sandstone pine barrens, at the southern edge of jack pine's range. In the summer of 2018, a wildfire burned approximately 200 ha of the Flat Rock barrens, providing the opportunity to study post‐disturbance jack pine and understory resilience. We aimed to establish if jack pine regeneration would occur, and if so, would it be influenced by fire severity, pre‐fire stand characteristics, and competition. We predicted that higher seedling densities would be associated with higher burn severity, higher pre‐fire jack pine stand density, and lesser understory competition. We collected seedling density and understory composition data annually from 2019 to 2022 across 45 plots spanning the disturbed and adjacent undisturbed barrens. In 2021 and 2022, seedling heights were also collected. Seedling densities following the disturbance ranged from 275,385 to 390,513 ha−1;  = 357,821 ha−1. Jack pine seedling density was positively associated with fire severity and moss abundance for all years. Pre‐fire stand density along with ericaceous shrub, grass, and duff abundance were also positively associated with seedling density in some years. Seedling height was positively associated with fire severity along with grass and blueberry abundance. These factors, for both establishment/survival and growth, point to the importance of seed supply, microsite conditions, and facilitation in jack pine regeneration success. At this point, it does not appear that the interaction of disturbance with changing climate has shifted enough to prevent the recovery of this ecosystem to its pre‐disturbance jack pine‐dominated state. However, ongoing climate change may still have an impact on seedlings/saplings as this forest continues to mature.