PurposeToday, proficient practices are required to stimulate along various boundaries of the supply chain (SC) to exploit manufacturing resources economically, effectually and gracefully for retaining operational excellence. Accordingly, varieties of paramount practices, i.e. Lean, Agile, Resilient and Green practices, are integrated in present study with the objective to develop a Decision Support Framework (DSF) to select robust supplier under the extent of Lean-Agile-Resilient-Green (LARG) practices for a manufacturing firm. The framework is developed and validated in the Indian automotive sector, where the primary data is collected based on perceptions of the respondents working in an automotive company.Design/methodology/approachLARG metrics can ponder ecological balance, customer satisfaction, associations, effectiveness and sustainability and thus, the study consolidated LARG practices in one umbrella to develop a DSF. The analytical approach under DSF is developed by the integration AHP, DEMATEL, ANP, Extended MOORA and SAW techniques in present study to evaluate a robust supplier under the aegis of LARG practices in SC. DSF is developed by scrutinizing and categorizing LARG characteristics, where the selected LARG characteristics are handled by fuzzy sets theory to deal with the impreciseness and uncertainty in decision making.FindingsThe study has identified 63 measures (15 for Lean, 15 for Agile, 14 for resilient and 19 for Green) to support the robust supplier selection process for manufacturing firms. The findings of study explicate “Internal communication agility”, “Interchangeability to personnel resources”, “Manufacturing flexibility”, “degree of online solution”, “Quickness to resource up-gradation”, “Manageability to demand and supply change”, “Overstocking inventory practices” as significant metrics in ranking order. Additionally, “Transparency to share information”, “Internal communication agility”, “Manufacturing Flexibility”, “Green product (outgoing)” are found as influential metrics under LARG practices respectively.Practical implicationsA technical DSF to utilize by the managers is developed, which is connected with knowledge-based theory and a case of an automobile manufacturing firm is presented to illustrate its implementation. The companies can utilize presented DSF to impose service excellence, societal performance, agility and green surroundings in SC for achieving sustainable outcomes to be welcomed by the legislations, society and rivals. The framework represents an important decision support tool to enable managers to overcome imprecise SC information sources.Originality/valueThe study presented a proficient platform to review the most significant LARG alternative in the SC. The study suggested a cluster of LARG metrics to support operational improvement in manufacturing firms for shifting gear toward sustainable SC practices. The present study embraces its existence in enrolling a high extent of collaboration amongst clients, project teams and LARG practices to virtually eradicate the likelihood of absolute project failure.