INTRODUCTION: Resilience is recognized as the potential capacity of a system or community to adapt or resist change in order to maintain an appropriate level of performance and structure. Moreover, governments adopt a variety of strategies to mitigate the effects of natural disasters. In this regard, the rural Hadi project is an efficient method for rural physical management. The present study aimed to assess the effects of Hadi project implementation on rural resilience.
METHODS: The current study sought to investigate the effect of Hadi project implementation on the resilience of rural settlements in the villages of Oraman district. This descriptive-analytical study was conducted based on survey design. The statistical population of the present study consisted of the heads of households living in Oraman Takht district in which the Hadi project has been implemented at least 5 years ago. The participants were selected via the convenience sampling method. The data were analyzed using factor analysis, indexing, chi-square, Friedman test, and stepwise regression.
FINDINGS: Based on the results, the rural Hadi project had a positive significant effect on all the considered indicators (α=0.05). The effect size of this project on different dimensions of resilience was as follows: social resilience (257.45), economic resilience (208.95), institutional resilience (115.86), and environmental-physical resilience (196.69). Furthermore, a high correlation (0.993) was detected between the independent variable and the dependent variable. According to Friedman test, the greatest effect was exerted on the environmental-physical (3.23), institutional (3.00), economic (1.94), and social (1.51) dimensions, respectively.
CONCLUSION: As evidenced by the obtained results, the implementation of the rural Hadi project affected all rural resilience indicators. The implementation of this project exerted the most and least significant impact on the physical-environmental and social indicators, respectively. In fact, the implementation of this project is one of the effective methods for the enhancement of rural resilience indicators. Confirmatory factor analysis also verified the positive effect of Hadi project implementation on resilience indicators