AbstractBackground and aimsHome quarantine and physical distancing at the time of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‐19) had a severe effect on the mental health of the populations. Resilience has been reported previously to be a protective factor against anxiety, stress, and depression. This study evaluates the prevalence and severity of depression, anxiety, stress, and perceived stress and their relation with resilience associated with the COVID‐19 pandemic among a sample of the general population in Southern Iran.MethodsIn this cross‐sectional web‐based survey, from April 12 to May 13, 2020, stress, anxiety, depression, perceived stress, and resilience were measured using the Persian version of Depression Anxiety and Stress Scale (DASS‐21), Perceived Stress Scale (PSS‐14), and Connor‐Davidson Resilience Scale (CD‐RISC). Statistical analyses were carried out using the IBM Statistical Package for Social Sciences. Mean ± standard deviation (SD) and frequencies were used to describe demographic data. Independent sample t‐test, Spearman correlation, and the Pearson correlation coefficient were performed to examine anxiety, depression, stress, and resilience.ResultsAmong a total of 538 participants, the overall prevalence of moderate‐to‐extremely severe depression, anxiety, and stress was found to be 26.1%, 33.2%, and 5.8%, respectively. The overall median PSS and resilience score were 30 and 70, respectively. There was a significant association between higher age and perceived stress. Male and high income were related to higher resilience scores. Perceived stress positively correlates with resilience, whereas depression significantly correlates with anxiety and stress. Individuals with underlying disease demonstrated significantly higher scores for depression and anxiety. Also, perceived stress had a significant but weak, positive correlation with age and the number of quarantine days.ConclusionThe occurring COVID‐19 pandemic could be the culprit of psychological distress, anxiety, and depression of large population quantities. Our results showed a subordinate overall resilience in the general Iranian population during the COVID‐19 pandemic.