PT Janji Mulya Executive Learning (PT Janji Mulya) was a business unit within Janji Mulya Business School foundation and became an independent business entity as a limited liability company (Perseroan Terbatas) in January 2020. When Covid-19 happened, the company’s revenue dropped to only 30% in the first year (2020) after the spin-off. In the next year (2021) the revenue increased almost one hundred percent despite the fact that it was still forty percent below the 2019 performance. The company expect that the trend will keep going up to the 2022 fiscal year, however the fact says the contrary: the revenue in 2022 was slightly going down. Besides, the majority of individual performance decreased by 45.9% of employees. These problems in the postpandemic condition that is differed from expectation, has raised concern of PT Janji Mulya management. Further information were obtained that several factors could be the cause of low employee performance, namely digital culture, compensation, career development, and employee resilience. Based on these problems, this research was conducted to know and analyze the relationship of digital culture, compensation, career development, and employee resilience, with employee performance, as well as to propose solution regarding the four factors that could increase employee performance.  To that end, this study was conducted with two objectives, namely descriptive and verification purpose. To analyse the hypotheses, this study employs multiple regression. Data collection was done by census to the population of PT Janji Mulya employees (N=60). Questionnaire was distributed at one-shot time horizon method and cross-sectional data.  The findings revealed that there is a significant simultaneous influence of the four independent variables on employee performance. The test of partial effect showed that each variable of digital culture, compensation, career development, and employee resilience, have a positive and significant relationship with employee performance.  Based on the results of the analysis that combines the results of hypothesis testing and the results of interviews with research informants, the business solutions for developing employee performance at PT Janji Mulya are arranged in the form of priorities based on the correlation values of the four variables on employee performance. Besides there are several insights that might influence employee performance, namely: a clear business strategy that is communicated effectively from the top management to the lowest level in the organization, Availability of resources that affect the performance of a department, and Strategic Foresight Analysis training to equip employees to be skillful at analyzing conditions, predicting changes that may occur, and managing response preparation and implementation plans, so that employees become more resilient.