 11016  Background: Stress Management and Resiliency Training (SMART) is a validated resilience training program designed to reduce stress, improve emotional resilience, and decrease burnout. The prevalence of burnout among practicing oncologists is as high as 40%, but unknown among oncology trainees. We implemented a virtual format of the SMART program to the Hematology/Oncology fellowship at Mayo Clinic to assess the feasibility of such a delivery, measure baseline rates of burnout in this group, and to investigate if a virtual method of delivery is as effective as in-person delivery as described in the literature. Methods: The SMART project was a mixed-methods, prospective, single arm clinical trial. Hematology/Oncology Fellows at Mayo Clinic were invited to participate. Four one-hour training sessions were conducted virtually. Fellows were given access to SMART online video modules and a book which supported the content covered during virtual training, a companion resilience mobile app, and a paperback mindfulness journal. Stress, burnout, and emotional resilience were measured at baseline and three months post-intervention using the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI), and Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC2). Changes in mean scores on the PSS, MBI, and CD-RISC2 were assessed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Program feedback and feasibility data were obtained during a virtual focus group. Audio transcripts from the focus group were codified for thematic analysis and verified by intercoder triangulation. A 6-month assessment will be due in March 2022. Results: 26 of 50 fellows invited participated in our study. At baseline, 24% of participants had measurable burnout and 92% had moderate to high stress. At 3-months, the number of participants with moderate to high stress decreased to 71%, while rates of burnout remained unchanged. The PSS demonstrated a decrease in mean stress (-10.9%, p = 0.005), while the MBI demonstrated decreased emotional exhaustion (MBI-EE -6.01%, p = 0.04), an improved sense of personal achievement (MBI-PA 28.1%, p < 0.001), but slightly worse feelings of depersonalization (MBI-DP 16.46%, p = 0.05). The CD-RISC2 suggested no change in global emotional resilience (-0.71%, p = 0.82). Thematic analysis of the focus group data revealed that participants overwhelmingly found the program beneficial (83% of all responses), 20% indicated improved stress, and 15% indicated improved work performance. Conclusions: Oncology fellows in this study had lower rates of burnout compared to practicing oncologists. Virtual implementation of the SMART program is feasible and resulted in improvements in stress and prevented worsened burnout. Outcomes were comparable to previously published studies conducted in-person. Focus group participants found the training beneficial, reported lower stress, and improved work performance. 