BackgroundCOVID-19 outbreak have a long-term negative impact on mental health. Meanwhile, it may also provide opportunities for positive outcomes (e.g., post-traumatic growth). Resilience and social support could serve as psychological resources to protect individuals against the detrimental effects of the COVID-19 crisis and enable people to develop positive changes during challenging times.ObjectiveBy testing the roles of resilience and social support in the relationship between COVID-19 related stress and negative mental health outcomes (depression and anxiety), as well as the relationship between COVID-19 related stress and positive mental health outcomes (post-traumatic growth, PTG), this study aimed to investigate the psychological mechanisms involved in different mental health outcomes induced by COVID-19.MethodsAn online survey was conducted 1 year after the peak of the COVID-19 outbreak (from April to August 2021) in China. The survey includes demographic questionnaires and six scales: the Impact of Event Scale-Revised for COVID-19 (IES-RC), the 10-item Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC-10), the Perceived Social Support Scale (PSSS), the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), the Generalized Anxiety Disorder scale (GAD-7) and the Posttraumatic Growth Inventory (PTGI). The structural equation model (SEM) was used to evaluate the relations and mechanisms between COVID-19 related stress and resilience, social support in depression, anxiety, and PTG.ResultsA total of 771 Chinese subjects completed the questionnaire, including 416 (54%) females. COVID-19 related stress was associated with anxiety (P &lt; 0.001), PTG (P &lt; 0.001), and depression (P &lt; 0.001). Resilience was related to depression (P &lt; 0.001), anxiety (P &lt; 0.001), and PTG (P &lt; 0.001). Social support was associated with depression (P &lt; 0.001), anxiety (P &lt; 0.001), and PTG (P &lt; 0.001). Under SEM analysis, resilience mediated the effects of COVID-19 related stress on depression and post-traumatic growth. Social support mediated the impacts of COVID-19 related stress on post-traumatic growth, depression, and anxiety. The path coefficients of the mediation effects were statistically significant.ConclusionsThe current findings suggest that COVID-19 related stress has a double-edged effect on mental health. Depression, anxiety, and PTG coexist in Chinese individuals 1 year after the peak of the pandemic. Resilience and social support serve as important protective factors of mental health, safeguard people from the negative mental health outcomes of the COVID-19, and promote PTG.