AbstractThe ability to swiftly restore functionality following an extreme event is an essential characteristic of a disaster resilient infrastructure system. However, the restoration of functionality of a single infrastructure system often depends on the functionality of other systems that provide resources the considered system needs to operate and recover. Furthermore, infrastructure systems are crucial for the post-disaster functional recovery of the building stock of a community. Thus, community resilience assessment and improvement require a system-of-systems perspective, considering the post-disaster performance of several interdependent infrastructure systems and the building stock at the same time. One of the principal issues in resilience assessment and improvement is that such system-of-systems consideration may require detailed information on the vulnerability and recoverability of numerous components. While such information might be available for certain systems (e.g., housing), for others, the information might be unavailable due to privacy and security concerns (e.g., electric power supply systems or buildings housing important functions). In this paper, we propose a supply/demand interface between the system-of-systems simulator, defined within the interdependent Resilience - Compositional Demand/Supply (iRe-CoDeS) framework, and the individual infrastructure system simulators. Such an interface can be used for regional recovery simulation and resilience assessment of interdependent infrastructure systems, while allowing infrastructure system operators to maintain system’s privacy and/or security. We define a tiered supply/demand interface, where the amount of information provided by individual systems can range from system-level to component-level post-disaster evolution of resource supply and demand, assessed using expert opinion or confidential in-house models. The proposed supply/demand interfaces are illustrated in a semi-virtual case study, assessing the seismic resilience of North-East San Francisco, focusing on the effect of interdependent infrastructure on the functional recovery of residential buildings.