AbstractBackgroundCognitive resilience, the discrepancy observed in individuals with high Alzheimer’s disease (AD) neuropathology and near‐normal cognition, is a growing area of study, wherein multiple factors are responsible. Currently, the role of the microglial activation in cognitive resilience is unknown. Herein described is a case report characterizing the amyloid responsive microglia (ARM) in an 88‐year‐old male decedent homozygous for APOE E4, clinically cognitively intact, and found to have AD neuropathologic change (ADNC) upon autopsy.MethodThe participant was enrolled in the Mayo Clinic Study of Aging (MCSA) and continuously followed for 14 years from 73‐ to 87‐years‐old, wherein serial MRI and clinical assessments were obtained. An autopsy was performed upon death, and routine neuropathologic sections were taken. Formalin‐fixed, paraffin‐embedded sections were stained with H&E, and single immunohistochemistry was performed using antibodies against tau (AT8), beta‐amyloid (6F3D), alpha‐synuclein (LB509), TDP‐43 (pS409/410), and CD163 (10D6). Digital image analysis was performed on dorsolateral prefrontal cortex sections scanned at 40x (Leica GT450). ARM (CD163% area) and beta‐amyloid (% area) measurements were obtained using QuPath threshold classifiers. Descriptive statistics were performed (Graphpad).ResultThe decedent was an 88‐year‐old male, homozygous for APOE E4, with a history of three cardiovascular and metabolic conditions, and lifelong smoking. His MMSE (average 28/30) and global cognition (average ‐0.51) were relatively stable (Figure 1), with no clinical concerns for cognitive impairment. Cortical thickness was normal (temporal meta‐ROI>3 mm) on four serial MRIs. The participant reported high cognitive, physical activities, and education‐occupation scores (upper quartile for the 70+ population). Neuropathologic evaluation was notable for severe cerebral amyloid angiopathy, high ADNC (A3B3C3), and remote microinfarcts. CD163‐positive ARM were observed in the neocortices and perivascular spaces, and the ARM:beta‐amyloid ratio was 0.26 (Figure 1). This ARM:beta‐amyloid ratio trended upwards (>90th percentile) compared to APOE E4/E4‐matched‐ and age‐matched controls provided from the University of Pennsylvania.ConclusionThis case report demonstrates a cognitively resilient individual with an elevated ARM:amyloid ratio. Conversely, lower ARM ratios were observed in a cognitively impaired cohort, raising the possibility ARM may associate with cognition. ARM may represent a protective and phagocytic population, and further studies correlating microglia, cognition, and putative mechanism are required.