Abstract
Despite its devastating clinical and societal impact, approaches to treat delirium in older adults remain elusive, making it important to identify factors that may confer resilience to this syndrome. Here, we investigated a cohort of 93 cognitively normal older patients undergoing elective surgery recruited as part of the Successful Aging after Elective Surgery study. Each participant was classified either as a SuperAger (n = 19) or typically aging older adult (n = 74) based on neuropsychological criteria, where the former was defined as those older adults whose memory function rivals that of young adults. We compared these subgroups to examine the role of preoperative memory function in the incidence and severity of postoperative delirium. We additionally investigated the association between indices of postoperative delirium symptoms and cortical thickness in functional networks implicated in SuperAging based on structural magnetic resonance imaging data that were collected preoperatively. We found that SuperAging confers the real-world benefit of resilience to delirium, as shown by lower (i.e. zero) incidence of postoperative delirium and decreased severity scores compared with typical older adults. Furthermore, greater baseline cortical thickness of the anterior mid-cingulate cortex—a key node of the brain’s salience network that is also consistently implicated in SuperAging—predicted lower postoperative delirium severity scores in all patients. Taken together, these findings suggest that baseline memory function in older adults may be a useful predictor of postoperative delirium risk and severity and that superior memory function may contribute to resilience to delirium. In particular, the integrity of the anterior mid-cingulate cortex may be a potential biomarker of resilience to delirium, pointing to this region as a potential target for preventive or therapeutic interventions designed to mitigate the risk or consequences of developing this prevalent clinical syndrome.