The global supply chain process has been badly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Consequently, firms search for factors that influence supply chain resilience and improve firm operational performance. The current research develops an integrated resilient supply chain model that combines factors underpinned DART model, innovation, digital technology, and value co-creation to investigate supply chain resilience during the COVID-19 pandemic. The research framework was empirically tested with a data set of 329 responses from employees working in logistics firms. the study find that supply chain resilience is determined by value co-creation, the DART model, innovation, and digital technology. The factors underpinning the DART model, including dialogue, access, risk assessment, and transparency, have positively impacted value co-creation. The structural model shows that dialogue has a positive impact on developing value co-creation between manufacturing firms and stakeholders, Empirical investigation revealed that value co-creation in supply chain operations is estimated by dialogue, access, risk assessment, transparency, innovation, and digital technology and revealed substantial variance R^2 71.9% in measuring value co-creation. This research is significant as it develops a resilient supply chain model with the combination of the DART model, innovation, digital technology, and value co-creation and investigates supply chain resilience during the COVID-19 pandemic. Although current research contributes to theory, practice, and method, disclosing research limitations opens numerous avenues for future researchers. This study does not claim to include all factors that impact the value co-creation process in supply chain operations. For instance, other factors, such as IT infrastructure, commitment, and integrative quality, may positively influence value co-creation. Second, supply chain resilience is determined by value co-creation and network capability. Therefore, the research encourages academicians and policymakers to investigate the supply chain resilience phenomenon with other market-oriented facts. future researchers are suggested to investigate the current research model in longitudinal method