Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to gain  an understanding of resiliency management within a turbulent globally integrated  economic network. Problem investigated: The South African economy  functions as an integrated component of the global economic network, one that is  highly competitive and extremely turbulent in nature. The current subprime  initiated economic meltdown and the impact thereof on South African government,  business and industry institutions serves as a case in point. The question posed  is one of how best to manage institutional resiliency within such a complex  environment. Methodology: A literature study is undertaken and a  narrative enquiry conducted by means of open ended discussions with fourteen  South African managers on an individual basis to determine the impact of the  economic meltdown on South African organisations and the nature of resiliency  management in response thereto. The approach adopted is intentionally  analytical-descriptive in nature. The narrative enquiry constituted open ended  discussions with managers in order to learn from their personal experience in  resiliency management. In view of the sensitive nature of the discussions and to  get a more reliable reflection of the true situation that exists they were  conducted on a basis of anonymity. Findings: An important conclusion  drawn from the study is that the culture and climate of the institution play a  very fundamental role in resiliency management. Nurturing a culture of  ''resiliency awareness'' is deemed to be a vital aspect in dealing with the  emergent consequences of sudden, unexpected and unpredictable events such as the  subprime economic meltdown. Value of the research: Seen within the context of a  prevailing highly turbulent and unpredictable globally networked economy, the  insights gained from the study could assist executives and managers in exploring  alternative means of engendering institutional resiliency.  Conclusion: Resiliency management embodies both a proactive and a  reactive approach, each of which inherently have organisational culture and  climate implications. The nurturing of a culture of ''resiliency awareness'' is  found to be a vital ingredient in managing institutional resiliency in the face  of unprecedented, unexpected and unforeseen events that have a significant  impact on the institution and its operational activities.