The authors deal with the concept of resilience (stress resistance) at the macro level, and reveal its meaning in the societal, economic and social dimensions. It is shown that in the context of the strengthening of global risks and hybrid threats, and the accelerated transformation of the world into a global hybrid "peace-war" system, the priority task of government policy is to ensure the resilience of the national economic system as the ability to maintain functionality and recover after the shock effect of various factors. Based on the logical-historical approach, the authors reveal the stages in the formation of the concept of multidimensional resilience as a strategic basis of modern governance of the European Union. This concept became the basis for the reconfiguration of the EU strategic foresight system in 2020, integrated into the process of forming a Pan-European policy aimed at ensuring an effective transition to a "green", digital and fairer Europe. Within the framework of the European Strategy and Policy Analysis System (ESPAS), the updated EU strategic foresight system provides for the use of "Resiliency Information Panels" as a new monitoring tool, developed with due regard of the specificity in the development of the participating states. The evaluations of the socio-economic resilience of the European Union for the year 2023, which were obtained with the help of the specified monitoring tool, were analyzed and presented by the European Commission. The authors reveal the role of the concept of multidimensional resilience in the formation and implementation of national recovery and stability plans of the EU states at the current stage. Characterized the legislative innovations of the European Union regarding the resilience of the economies and societies of the participating countries in the conditions of overcoming the shock consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Russian-Ukrainian war and climate change. The paper substantiates the need to ensure the social resilience of the economic development of Ukraine as a reliable pillar of its support during the war with the Russian Federation, as well as during the post-war reconstruction and reconstruction. The authors prove that the social resilience of Ukraine’s national economy under the conditions of martial law and post-war reconstruction can be presented in the form of a model that structurally contains three sectors, namely: 1) employment and labor potential; 2) solvent consumer demand; and 3) social protection and provision. Each of these sectors is complexly dependent on many factors that characterize the generation of human and social capital, the quality of people's lives, the development of the spheres of employment, social security and social protection of the population, the state of the ecosystem and the institutional environment, etc. Taking into account the EU’s modern approaches, a list of basic and additional indicators is developed for monitoring and analyzing the social resilience of Ukraine’s national economy. The authors provide various practical recommendations on state policy measures aimed at ensuring the social resilience of this country’s economy of Ukraine in the war and post-war period.