ABSTRACT

Background:
Recent reports indicate that self-isolation because of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)-related lockdowns had significant influence on mental health of medical students.


Aim:
To understand the relationship between two different motivations for solitude – self-determined versus non-self-determined with medical students’ COVID-19-related anxiety and psychological resilience during their self-isolation because of COVID-19-related lockdowns.


Materials and Methods:
After the approval of the Institutional Ethics Committee, this online survey was done on undergraduate Indian medical students during the COVID-19 pandemic. Expressing consent at the beginning of the online form, enabled the students to proceed to the next section comprising their sociodemographic details and clinical details. The last section of the form comprised the Motivation for Solitude Scale–Short Form, the COVID-19 Anxiety Scale, and the Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale-Abbreviated.


Results:
282 out of 286 students of either sex gave their consent and completed the given form. Both self-determined and non-self-determined motivations for solitude were higher in female medical students. The self-determined motivation for solitude was directly related to all students’ resilience. A past history of psychiatric illness was directly associated with the non-self-determined motivation for solitude of the students. The non-self-directed motivation for solitude of female students was indirectly related to their resilience. The COVID-19-related anxiety was not related to either type of motivation for solitude as well as the resilience of the medical students.


Conclusion:
Indian female medical students are more motivated for solitude, be it self-determined or non-self-determined, than their male counterparts. The student’s resilience has a direct relationship with students’ self-determined motivation. The COVID-19-related anxiety among the medical students is not related to their motivations for solitude or resilience.
