Abstract
This research has a long-term objective to regulate the use of riverbank space in urban areas and increase the city’s resilience to disasters. This is based on the importance of rivers for human life and the impact of disasters that arise if they are not managed properly. At present, attention to rivers is still very low and even tends to be neglected so that it often causes disasters, especially floods and fires due to uncontrolled use of riverbanks. This research was conducted in three stages. The first is to formulate a database indicator for riverbank space and the concept of data provision. Second, the development of a Database Sheet to measure the total value of the riverbank space data indicators. Third, conversion of the total value of the database indicators in the Database Sheet into spatial chart format. The database indicator includes 7 components, namely: Physical space-riverbanks, river flows, building closure, infrastructure, public facilities, vegetation, and zoning. The concept of providing data is by collecting field data every period or depending on changes that occur in the field using a database sheet. The Database Sheet is prepared in 2 formats, namely manual format and digital format using G-Form. The results of data collection are then processed using weighting formulas and weight calculations to obtain the total value of disaster risk from the riverbank space data indicator. The criteria for the calculation results seen from the level of risk are divided into 3, namely Low Risk, Medium Risk, and High Risk. The results of the calculation based on the probability of a disaster are divided into 3, namely: Often, Sometimes, Rarely. The results of the calculation of the riverbank space indicators from the Database Sheet are then converted into a graphic format according to the riverbanks in Banjarmasin City. The results of the conversion of indicator values along with the interpretation of disaster risk produce a risk map for disaster resilience. Furthermore, from the risk map of disaster resilience and database sheets, actions to reduce the threat of flood or fire can be analyzed based on the conditions of the components that affect it. The development of this spatial database is directly beneficial to the government as the basis for policy making and decisions in the preparation of Spatial Planning and Zoning Regulations because this spatial database can then be developed into an application that can be applied in urban planning (Level 6 Technology Readiness Level). The direct benefit for the community is the creation of a comfortable and safe residential environment from the threat of floods and fires.