The subject of the article is related to the identification of possible risk factors in the communication of Kuzbass members of the State Duma of the VIII convocation based on the case of the VKontakte social network, which affect the stress resilience of the regional political system in Kuzbass. The purpose of the article is the validation of the authors’ approach to the application of the stress resilience concept to analyzing possible risk factors in the communication of State Duma members of the VIII convocation on the VKontakte network and the identification of stabilizing factors that ensure the stability of all branches of the regional power system. The methodological basis of the study is presented by the concept of resilience, the M. Castells’s concept of the network society and the method of content analysis for studying posts and comments on the posts of deputies. The concept of stress resilience was first substantiated in the works of K. Holling in his consideration of resilience of socio-ecological systems. Russian researchers do not apply the concept of resilience widely; it is applied mainly to the consideration of international issues related to the dynamics of interaction between Russia and the states of the European Union. The first works on the impact of risk factors on the internal political processes of the regions have appeared recently, in particular, against the background of the spread of COVID-19 and under the influence of latent risks of the socio-economic development of the regions. In the course of the study, it was revealed that the accounts of Kuzbass deputies have all the signs of risk factors that not only make the posted news content unattractive, but also affect the sentiments in the region and increase the level of political inertia and apathy towards all programs and projects implemented in the region. News content is formalized, posts have features of low information content, the opinion of politicians in posts is impersonal, and comments do not fulfill its function of receiving an answer to the question posed. Forms of communication are identified as stabilizing factors that contribute to building a more “open” dialogue and exchange of opinions between politicians and network users as a tool for ensuring the sustainable development of Kuzbass