PurposeDespite the economic growth in Ghana, the manufacturing industry faces numerous challenges in their supply chains. The study aims to investigate the mediated-moderated role of supply chain technological innovation (SCTI) in the relationship between supply chain resilience (SCR) and supply chain performance (SCP) of manufacturing firms. By exploring this relationship, the study seeks to provide insights that can help manufacturing firms overcome the challenges they face and improve their overall supply chain performance.Design/methodology/approachThe quantitative research approach and explanatory research design were utilised. A sample of 345 manufacturing firms was drawn from a population of 2495 manufacturing firms in the Accra metropolis. Analysis of this study was performed using the Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM).FindingsIt was revealed that SCTI positively mediates the nexus between SCR and SCP. However, we document that SCTI negatively moderates the nexus. It is instructive to advocate that a mere presence of a more enhanced SCTI is not enough to improve upon SCP of manufacturing firms, but should be a channel through which SCR can improve SCP.Practical implicationsThis study highlights the need for managers of firms to prioritise investment in technological innovation as a means of enhancing SCR and ultimately improving supply chain performance. By understanding the SCTI mediated-moderated relationship between SCR and SCP, supply chain managers, logistics managers, operation managers, as well as procurement managers can develop more effective strategies to optimise their operations. This study provides valuable insights for managers and policymakers in developing and implementing supply chain resilience strategies that take into account the important role of SCTI.Originality/valueThe originality of the study lies in exploring the mediated-moderated effect of technological innovation on the nexus between resilience and performance of supply chains in developing economies, where firms often face unique challenges such as infrastructure limitations, political instability and economic uncertainty. By investigating the interplay of SCTI between SCR and SCP, researchers can develop new insights and strategies to help navigate these challenges and achieve success.