 e24027  Background: The ongoing two-part phase 2/3 RESILIENT study (NCT03088813) is investigating the efficacy and safety of liposomal irinotecan monotherapy in patients with SCLC who have progressed on or after first line platinum-based chemotherapy. This exploratory analysis from RESILIENT part 1 was conducted to confirm the psychometric properties of established PRO instruments that had not previously been validated in patients with SCLC. Methods: Patients completed the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ) Core 30 (C30) and the EORTC QLQ Lung Cancer 13 (LC13) before treatment assignment (baseline), every 6 weeks thereafter, at treatment discontinuation and at the 30-day follow-up visit. Psychometric methods included descriptive statistics (items and scales), correlations (item-to-item and item-to-total), internal consistency (Cronbach’s α), test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC], two-way random effects model), construct validity and sensitivity to change. The analysis included patients who received at least one dose of study drug and completed at least one PRO assessment. Results: Thirty patients were enrolled in RESILIENT part 1 and included in the analysis. At baseline, 68% of patients reported ‘not severe’ or ‘mild’ symptoms. Floor effects (i.e. more than 25% of responses of ‘not at all’) were observed for several of the functioning/impact and symptom scales of the EORTC QLQ C30 and LC13. Moderate to strong correlations were found among most questionnaire items within their respective scales. Acceptable evidence for internal consistency and good test-retest reliability were observed. Selected results for the EORTC QLQ LC13, including dyspnea scales, are shown in the Table. The magnitude of correlations among PRO instruments supported evidence for convergent validity in this sample. Conclusions: In RESILIENT part 1, patients experienced low and tolerable symptoms at enrollment, limiting the potential for further improvement. Overall, these PRO instruments had acceptable psychometric properties (e.g. construct validity, reliability and ability to detect change) in this sample. However, these analyses should be repeated in a larger sample using data from RESILIENT part 2. Clinical trial information: NCT03088813. [Table: see text] 