The decentralization reform implemented in Ukraine since 2014, besides the administrative division and territorial governance transformation, has a considerable fiscal aspect. The 2015 amendments to The Budget Code of Ukraine have established direct bilateral relations between the budgets of central government and territorial communities, most often in their turn reconstituted as an amalgamation of diverse settlements. Equalization of disparities in territorial development, as well as spending optimization, were the primary concerns in the reform process, which resulted in establishment of specific budget transfer mechanisms, including the targeted subventions for education and public health (Art. 97 of the BCU), as well as horizontal equalization of taxability, constituted by the two-way transfers to or from particular communities depending on their dedicated tax income (Art. 98 of the BCU). The present escalation of military aggression towards Ukraine has introduced further territorial discontinuities into the fiscal system, ranging from physical destruction of communities to disproportionate fiscal burdens upon the refugee-welcoming regions. Furthermore, against the war-induced background of one of the deepest economic crises of the Ukrainian independence history, the resilience of socially oriented spending against macroeconomic shocks gains acute relevance. In this context, quarterly consolidated budget spending data provided by the National Bank of Ukraine, which includes total spending on both central governmental and community levels since 2011, despite the obvious limitations, overcome some obstacles to a preliminary efficiency assessment of the reform due to their abstraction from both the interbudgetary transfer mechanisms and the territorial structure. We employed a simple correlation analysis, using Fisher’s z-transformation, of the consolidated budget and GDP data, aimed at establishment of statistical significance of correlation breaks between the real GDP and a number of functional spending categories. The significance is established at the 95% confidence level for educational and social security spending series, which, together with the recent spending observations, testifies for a positive impact having occurred since 2015 upon the resilience of consolidated spending. While the effects may be explained on the macroeconomic level by the mentioned transfer mechanisms in place, this aggregated analysis needs further supportive evidence from the communities’ level.