 Executive Summary  With incessant global competition, technological innovations, organizational restructuring, and turbulent business environment, contemporary organizations need resilient employees, who in turn are capable to face unprecedented changes and adapt successfully to challenging roles, tasks, and situations ( Shin, Taylor, & Seo, 2012 ). Consequently, this necessitates a validated employee-centric measure of resilience for assisting the organizations in fostering and measuring employee resilience development, which would enable employees to meet the challenges and growing work demands ( Hodliffe, 2014 , The development and validation of the employee resilience scale (EmpRes): The conceptualisation of a new model (Doctoral dissertation), New Zealand: University of Canterbury; Masten, 2001 , American Psychologist, 56(3), 227; Winwood, Colon, & McEwen, 2013 , Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, 55(10), 1205–1212). To address this gap, the study assessed the psychometric properties of the ‘resilience at work’ (RAW) scale.  The study sample comprised employees working in IT organizations operating in the Indian National Capital Region (NCR). The study is based on cross-sectional questionnaire responses from 546 Indian employees working in the IT industry. A confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was conducted to test the factorial validity followed by an analysis of convergent and discriminant validity of the scale items. To evaluate the convergent validity, this study utilized three standard criteria which are standard factor loadings, composite reliability, and average variance extracted (AVE) ( Anderson & Gerbing, 1988 , Psychological Bulletin, 103(3), 411–423). In addition, the study tested the nomological validity of the RAW scale.  The study results reveal that the RAW scale exhibits high reliability and the results of CFA validated the seven-factor model of the RAW scale. The results of CFA and reliability of the scale demonstrate that the scale can be utilized to develop and measure resilience among Indian employees. Furthermore, the results of the nomological validity exhibit a significant relationship between resilience and work engagement. This study offers significant implications for both researchers and HRD practitioners. The study provides preliminary evidence for the psychometric properties of the scale in t he Indian organizational context and signifies its potential for the cross-cultural implementations. The RAW scale, thence, can be utilized by organizations as a validated tool for measuring and developing resilience among employees. 