The priority direction of the current stage of social and economic development of the regions is active support for the development of education. The formation basis of approaches to solving the problems of economic transformations of the region is the paradigm of sustainable development, which provides for a dynamic process of successive positive changes. These changes ensure the balance of economic, social and ecological aspects of the development of regions. The resilience of the region is a factor of social and economic well-being and is determined by the features of management methods combined with effective management of resources, including human resources. Social mechanisms, rules, and values of people determine economic practices specific to regions. Education is a key aspect of ensuring regional development, and the institutional partnership of educational service providers is a key aspect of change. The comprehensive mechanism of strengthening the influence of education on the processes of ensuring the resilience of the region becomes the promotion of the transformation of everyday practices, the way of life of people, educational organizations and structures, and the community in general. The article notes that the openness of the education sphere to broad social influence contributes to the strengthening of the region's resilience. Positive factors in education are the expansion of the range of providers of educational services, the strengthening of its practice-oriented orientation, the integration of the content of education. The authors determine the impact of the development of institutional partnership on the resilience of regional socio-economic development, determine the types and features of partnership models by type of management, resources, levels of education, determining goals, connections between partnership participants and other features. The authors also justify the need and content of regulatory interventions for scaling the model of institutional partnership of providers of educational services in order to increase the resilience of local/regional social and economic development.