Abstract
Background
Nurses in critical care and palliative care units care for patients suffering from severe pain and suffering and at high mortality risk. For this reason, nurses working in these units should be psychologically resilient. However, nurses who are constantly exposed to the death process face the risk of thanatophobia. The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between thanatophobia levels and the psychological resilience of nurses working in intensive care and palliative care units.

Methods
The sample of this descriptive and cross-sectional study included 158 nurses working in intensive care and palliative care units. Personal information form for nurses, Thanatophobia Scale and Psychological Resilience Scale for Adults were used. Data were collected through an online questionnaire in the study. Percentage calculations, mean measurements, Kruskal Wallis test and Mann Whitney U test were used in the statistical evaluation of the data.

Results
The mean of thanatophobia scale and psychological resilience scale was found 31.74 ± 10.08 and 108.34 ± 7.12, respectively. There was a statistically significant difference between the tanatophobia total scale score and age, receiving training on psychological resilience (p < 0.05). A statistically significant difference was found between perseption of self, family cohesion and perception of future and the status of receiving training on psychological resilience (p < 0.05). A statistically negative significant correlation was determined between the thanatophobia scale and the psychological resilience scale total scores.

Conclusions
As a result, it was determined that as the thanatophobia of the nurses increased, their psychological resilience decreased. This situation may negatively affect nurses working in critical departments to provide quality health care to patients. Establishing and maintaining training programs to reduce thanatophobia and increase psychological resilience of nurses working in intensive care and palliative care units will ensure that nurses provide quality health care to the patient and reduce the physiological and psychological wear of nurses.
