The paper studies approach to the interpretation of the essence of anti-crisis resilience of business entities and its functional components. The expediency of evaluating crisis resilience because of an integrated approach and taking into account the principles of forming a balanced scorecard is shown. Personnel and staff stability are considered in details which is the ability of the business entity to maintain the flexibility of the management system; reflects its availability of highly qualified personnel, contributes to low staff turnover, reflects the level of motivation of employees. It is proved that taking into account the aspect of the personnel component in the evaluation of the results of the business entity allows to carry out operational activities in accordance with its business strategy. The method of assessing human resources through such indicators as innovation, training, intellectual assets is considered. The list of relevant indicators is determined and the methods of their calculation are shown. Because of real data of the state enterprise “Amber of Ukrain” the approbation of the offered algorithm of an estimation of anti-crisis stability of business entities is carried out. In the process of research assessment was carried out in the context of four forecasts on the following functional components as finance (financial component), clients (marketing component), internal business processes (operational, investment and innovation components), training and staff development (management and information, personnel components)). According to the shaped system of evaluation indicators, standardized and balanced key (aggregated) indicators were calculated for each component of anti-crisis resilience. Based on the level of the overall integrated indicator of crisis resilience on the Harrington scale, the appropriate stage of the crisis process was established. Based on the obtained calculation results, an appropriate system of strategic goals and measures has been developed. It is proved the practical implementation of the system of balanced scores for setting current tasks for each department and employee, taking into account the strategic goals of the business entity.