AbstractPurpose:The purpose of this study was to: (1) explore experiences and responses of staff in caring for sheltered, frail, Hurricane Katrina evacuees; and (2) identify how planning and training can be enhanced for staff who may care for frail older populations during and after disasters.Methods:Individual, in-person, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 38 staff members in four nursing homes in Mississippi, sheltering 109 evacuees in November 2005, nine weeks after Hurricane Katrina.Twenty-four were direct care staff, including certified nursing assistants, licensed nurses, dietary aides, and social workers; 14 were support staff, including maintenance and business managers. The number interviewed in each nursing home averaged 9.5 (range 6–15). Using a discussion guide and focusing on their experiences caring for nursing home evacuees, staff were asked to describe: (1) experiences; (2) problems; (3) what helped; and (4) what was learned. Data were processed using grounded theory and thematic analysis. Responses of direct care staff differed in emphasis from those of support staff in several areas; responses from these groups were analyzed separately and together. Three of the researchers identified recurring themes; two organized themes conceptually.Results:Staff emphasized providing emotional reassurance to evacuees as well as physical care. Many described caring for evacuees as “a blessing,” saying the experience helped them bond with residents, evacuees, and other staff. However, caring for evacuees was difficult because staff members were extremely anxious and in poor physical condition after an arduous evacuation. Challenges included communicating with evacuees' families, preventing dehydration, lack of personal hygiene supplies, staff exhaustion, and emotional needs of residents, evacuees, and staff. Teamwork, community help, and having a well-organized disaster plan, extra supplies, and dependable staff helped personnel cope with the situation.Conclusions:Staff of nursing homes that sheltered Katrina evacuees demonstrated resilience in the disaster's aftermath. Many placed the well-being of residents as their first priority. Results underscore the importance of planning, teamwork, and adequate supplies and staffing. Training for long-term care staff should emphasize providing emotional support as well as physical care for residents and evacuees during and following disasters. Nurses, social workers, and other staff members responsible for promoting emotional well-being for nursing home residents should be prepared to respond to disasters.