Accessible summary
Nursing students in the present sample who have experienced childhood adversity have a certain level of post‐traumatic growth.
If introduced into nursing curricula, emotional intelligence interventions may increase emotional coping resources and enhance social skills for nurses, which may benefit their long‐term occupational health.
As researchers consider personal resilience a strategy for responding to workplace adversity in nurses, resilience building should be incorporated into nursing education.
This is a preliminary study that may guide future investigations of the curvilinear relationship rather than linear relationship between post‐traumatic growth and positive factors in the special sample of nursing students.
AbstractResilience, emotional intelligence and post‐traumatic growth may benefit nursing students’ careers and personal well‐being in clinical work. Developing both their emotional intelligence and resilience may assist their individual post‐traumatic growth and enhance their ability to cope with clinical stress. To investigate the relationships among post‐traumatic growth, emotional intelligence and psychological resilience in vocational school nursing students who have experienced childhood adversities, a cross‐sectional research design with anonymous questionnaires was conducted and self‐report data were analysed. The Childhood Adversities Checklist (Chinese version), Posttraumatic Growth Inventory, Emotional Intelligence Scale and the 10‐item Connor–Davidson Resilience Scale were used. Survey data were collected from 202 Chinese vocational school nursing students during 2011. Post‐traumatic growth was associated with emotional intelligence and psychological resilience. Results indicated a curvilinear relationship between emotional intelligence and post‐traumatic growth, and between psychological resilience and post‐traumatic growth. Moderate‐level emotional intelligence and psychological resilience were most associated with the greatest levels of growth. The results imply that moderate resilience and emotional intelligence can help nursing students cope with adversity in their future clinical work. This study first provided preliminary data suggesting the curvilinear relationship rather than linear relationship between post‐traumatic growth and positive factors in the sample of nursing students.