
Background
Workplace bullying and violence (WBV) are well-documented issues in the midwifery profession. Negative workplace culture, conflict, and bullying are the most common forms of workplace violence experienced by midwives. Workplace violence increases the risk of midwives experiencing burnout, compassion fatigue, psychological trauma, poor mental health, absenteeism, loss of passion for the midwifery profession, job dissatisfaction, and poor job retention. Midwifery students describe workplace violence in the form of physical, emotional, or verbal abuse, and bullying. Therefore, there is a justification to develop conflict resolution strategies and resilience in midwifery students prior to graduation.


Objective
Our aim is to develop and facilitate a bespoke education program for South Australian midwifery students to enable them to develop skills in conflict resolution, build resilience, and identify self-care strategies.


Methods
This study will undertake a preparatory phase summarizing the body of literature on midwifery students’ knowledge, understanding, and experiences of WBV. Following this, a 3-phase sequential mixed methods research design study will be undertaken. In Phase 1, quantitative data will be collected via a semistructured questionnaire and a validated conflict measurement tool, before and after attending an education workshop, and will be analyzed using descriptive and inferential statistics. Results from Phase 1 will inform and guide the development of an interview schedule for Phase 2. In Phase 2, qualitative data will be gathered by facilitating one-to-one interviews and a thematic analysis will be undertaken to gain a deeper understanding of midwifery students’ experiences of WBV. In Phase 3, data integration using triangulation will be undertaken and meta-inferences will be developed via the integration of results and findings from Phases 1 and 2.


Results
The preparatory phase will commence in October 2021. Phase 1 will commence in 2022 with analysis of pre- and posteducation results anticipated to be completed by December 2022. Phase 2 will be developed from findings of the preparatory phase and results of Phase 1. An interpretation of verbatim interview transcripts is estimated to be undertaken by April 2023. Phase 3 of the study is expected to commence in May 2023, and this will involve the analysis of collective evidence gathered from Phases 1 and 2. The anticipated completion date for the study is December 2023.


Conclusions
The outcomes of this research will provide insights into the prevalence and impact of WBV experienced by midwifery students. The findings of the research will report on levels of knowledge, skills, and confidence, and will assess the impact of a bespoke conflict resolution and resilience education workshop for midwifery students in managing WBV.


International Registered Report Identifier (IRRID)
PRR1-10.2196/35558
