Resilience describes the ability of someone to adapt to adverse life experiences by adjusting to demands with behavioral flexibility. When encountering crisis situations, resilient people typically spring back emotionally with increased strength and internal composure. Measuring resilience is important for assessing the ability of adolescents to respond to adverse situations. The objective of this study was to evaluate the psychometric performance of the Spanish version of the Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC) © for South America (CD-RISC-25SA) in a population of vulnerable Peruvian adolescents. This study used a cross-sectional design to measure sociodemographic variables and resilience. Participants were 451 adolescents living in a shelter in Lima, Perú. Face and content validity were established by expert panel, construct validity was evaluated with exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis, and internal consistency was assessed with Cronbach’s alpha. The analysis resulted in a four-dimensional model with 22 items explaining almost 27% of the variance with a Cronbach’s alpha of 0.90. The dimensions included self-confidence and self-trust from previous experiences, internal resources to cope with difficult situations, personal competence and tenacity, and self-regulation with external resources. Two of the 3 items eliminated from the instrument were related to the original dimension “spirituality influences” which may have been incorrectly translated and adapted without equivalence of meaning for cross-cultural research. The CD-RISC-25SA is not a stable multidimensional instrument for measuring resilience across the cultures and contexts of countries. However, the instrument appears to be stable for measuring resilience as a single dimension. For measuring resilience in the context of Peru, a four-dimensional model with 22 items was validated. Variations in the psychometric properties of translated instruments may result from not establishing the equivalence of meaning for each item before performing cross-cultural research. Researchers need to search for a more precise understanding of resilience as a universal concept transferable across borders and through translations.