Purpose: This study explores the impact of urban community collaborative governance on building resilience cities.
 
Theoretical framework: The Synergistic Governance Theory (SGT) was applied in this study.
 
Design/Methodology/Approach: The population of this study is the community of Zhengzhou City, Henan Province, China. The unit of analysis is individuals living in the community of Zhengzhou City. Through random sampling method, 384 community residents were selected to participate in the research. This study used a questionnaire survey method to obtain primary data for analysis.
 
Findings: The results of the study show that (1) there is a significant positive correlation between government regulation, corporate capabilities, social organization involvement and building resilience cities. (2) Strengthening government regulation, corporate capabilities, and social organization involvement can effectively strengthen urban community collaborative governance, which is beneficial to building resilience cities. Thus, it is favorable to building Resilience Cities.
 
Research, Practical & Social implications: This research will be useful in creating a new model of urban community governance that will enhance the ability of cities to cope with disasters and achieve the goal of building resilient cities. A multifaceted and collaborative urban community governance model will be developed by strengthening the collaboration of the three groups - government, corporations, and social organizations，in order to ensure that the collaborative urban community governance model promotes the city's ability to cope with disasters, thereby enhancing the city's resilience. Enhancing urban resilience can fundamentally improve residents' ability to cope with the potential risks that persist in cities, thereby resolving social conflicts and satisfying people's pursuit of a better life.
 
Originality/Value: This study presents an innovative form of urban community management model that provides valuable insights on the impact of collaborative urban community governance models on resilient city buildings.