Introduction. The article explores the role of physical activity in forming resilience in children. Conditions for intensive formation of personality traits are created in the primary school age. The change of the leading activity and expansion of interaction with the society at this age cause a greater number of difficult, stressful situations which require active reactions from the child such as coping, adaptation and manifestation of personal resilience. Regular physical activity contributes to overcoming difficulties. Younger students with sedentary lifestyles have lower level of resilience and its components than their physically active peers. Materials and methods. The following methods were used in the research: “Student’s personality socialization” by M.I. Rozhkov, “Attention span test” by P.Y. Galperin and S.L. Kabylnitskaya, “Multifactorial personality questionnaire” by R. Cattel adapted by E.M. Aleksandrovskaya (factor F). There were 43 respondents of third-grade school students. The control group included 26 children that were consistently and systematically engaged in physical activity, and the experimental group consisted of 17 school students with low physical activity. Results. The study found that the level of resilience and its components such as engagement, control, and risk-taking in a group of inactive primary school students is statistically significantly lower than of their physically active peers. Such children are socially less active and adaptive; they do not express their interest in new experiences, do not tend to take responsibility for their actions, are reserved in communication, and tend to complicate things. Conclusion. The findings about the reduced level of resilience and its components of physically inactive primary school students have determined the further direction of the research. It is planned to continue the study on the purposeful development of resilience in primary school students by organizing and conducting a program of physical extracurricular activities.