AbstractAimTo refine the Rushton Moral Resilience Scale (RMRS) by creating a more concise scale, improving the reliability, particularly of the personal integrity subscale and providing further evidence of validity.BackgroundHealthcare workers are exposed to moral adversity in practice. When unable to preserve/restore their integrity, moral suffering ensues. Moral resilience is a resource that may mitigate negative consequences. To better understand mechanisms for doing so, a valid and reliable measurement tool is necessary.DesignCross‐sectional survey.MethodsParticipants (N = 1297) had completed ≥1 items on the RMRS as part of the baseline survey of a larger longitudinal study. Item analysis, confirmatory factor analyses, reliability analyses (Cronbach's alpha), and correlations were used to establish reliability and validity of the revised RMRS.ResultsItem and confirmatory factor analysis were used to refine the RMRS from 21 to 16 items. The four‐factor structure (responses to moral adversity, personal integrity, relational integrity and moral efficacy) demonstrated adequate fit in follow‐up confirmatory analyses in the initial and hold‐out sub‐samples. All subscales and the total scale had adequate reliabilities (α ≥ 0.70). A higher‐order factor analysis supports the computation of either subscale scores or a total scale score. Correlations of scores with stress, anxiety, depression and moral distress provide evidence of the scale's validity. Reliability of the personal integrity subscale improved.Conclusion and ImplicationsThe RMRS‐16 demonstrates adequate reliability and validity, particularly the personal integrity subscale. Moral resilience is an important lever for reducing consequences when confronted with ethical challenges in practice. Improved reliability of the four subscales and having a shorter overall scale allow for targeted application and will facilitate further research and intervention development.Patient/Public ContributionData came from a larger study of Canadian healthcare workers from multiple healthcare organizations who completed a survey about their experiences during COVID‐19.