AbstractBackground/PurposeStudies suggest utilization of support networks and mentors is a resiliency‐building strategy for health professional students. Likewise, a supportive resident–preceptor relationship has been associated with increased resident wellness. Despite this information, the impact of resident learners specifically connecting on resiliency topics with their preceptors is limited in the literature. The purpose of this study is to determine residents' perceptions of the impact of resiliency debriefing sessions with their preceptor.MethodologyNine 1‐h resiliency sessions were designed and delivered to 27 residents. Topics included: Introduction to Wellbeing, Balance, and Support Systems; Enneagram; Self‐Care; Imposter Syndrome; Brene Brown Critics and Feedback; Simon Sinek's “Start with Why”; Mindfulness and Gratitude; Mindset; and Creating a Mantra. After each resiliency session, residents debriefed with their clinical preceptor(s) within 1 week, which included a session content overview, perceived key takeaways, and what residents wanted more information on. Residents were then asked to complete a nine‐question survey assessing their perceptions.ResultsAfter delivery of nine resiliency sessions and preceptor debrief, 112 (46%) survey responses were recorded. The majority of residents (72%) agreed or strongly agreed that discussing these topics with preceptors was useful. Over half of residents felt preceptors were able to provide additional resiliency tools or resources (56% agreed or strongly agreed) and mentoring (63% agreed or strongly agreed). The majority of respondents (78%) felt resiliency topic discussions with preceptors improved their relationship and many (71%) felt the curriculum positively impacted their wellbeing.ConclusionOverall, residents responded favorably to participation in a resiliency curriculum and felt debrief sessions with their preceptors were beneficial and improved their resident–preceptor relationships. As we strive to improve the work‐life of health care providers and minimize burnout, it is essential to increase resiliency and wellbeing efforts for both current and future health professionals.