Abstract
During this presentation, discussion will be held around several of the decisions made for the sample climate change scenario, suggested indicators and their implications. This provides the audience with an example process of how to put together a shock scenario and prepare a resilience test given the tools and methodology the resilience testing project provides. There is increasing evidence of climate change and its associated health risks. Whilst resilience is required against a multitude of threats, resilience to climate change induced health risks will be essential for health systems in the future. This scenario focuses on a heat wave that is complicated by a follow-on shock, the collapse of the electrical grid. Deliberate choices were made to include two shocks, the integration of heat warning systems, suggestions to increase the demand for health services and how to include considerations of vulnerable groups. These will be discussed in the context of how to customise a scenario to a country context including the current functioning, replacing the shock mechanism of heat wave with other shocks such as flood or fires, and including the lessons of previous experience of environmental shocks. Resilience testing tools, such as the resilience testing manual, other sample scenarios and peer-to-peer scenario repository website will be demonstrated in practical application. This shock initially has an impact on the service delivery and resource generation functions of the health system performance assessment (HSPA) framework but the impacts flow into the other functions. The workshop will go through the combined framework, indicators that are useful to assess health systems resilience and questions that are proposed to the guide the discussion of the resilience testing exercise. From the discussion participants will be better prepared to implement resilience testing in their countries, understanding how to customise the shock of a heat wave to their local context.