Introduction: The impact of family resilience and connection on children’s oral health has not been well-documented in the published literature. Objectives: This study examined the association between family resilience and connection and the probability of a child having caregiver-reported dental caries using a nationally representative sample. Methods: A cross-sectional analysis of the 2016 National Survey of Children’s Health was performed on US children ages 6 to 17 y. Family resilience and connection was assessed using a 6-point index and analyzed as a 3-level categorical variable. Caregivers reported whether their child had “decayed teeth or cavities” during the past 12 mo. Logistic regression was performed controlling for child (age, gender, race/ethnicity, insurance, preventive dental use) and family (education and federal poverty level) characteristics. Results: Among the 35,167 children in the sample, 10.4% children had caregiver-reported dental caries. The prevalence of dental caries decreased in a graded fashion with increasing levels of family resilience and connection (12.5%, 10.5%, and 8.8%, respectively; P < 0.001). As compared with children with the lowest level of family resilience and connection, those with the highest level had lower odds of caregiver-reported dental caries after adjusting for child and family covariates (adjusted odds ratio = 0.63; 95% confidence interval = 0.58, 0.69). Conclusion: Using a nationally representative sample, children living in families with higher levels of resilience and connection had a significantly lower odds of caregiver-reported dental caries. Policies and programs that increase family resilience and connection have the potential to decrease dental caries in school-aged children. Knowledge Transfer Statement: This work suggests an association between family resilience/connection and dental caries in school-aged children. Further work is required to determine the degree to which addressing these constructs might impact child dental caries. 