Farming remains as a risky profession in drought prone areas as a result of many climate changeissues affecting the lives and livelihoods of many farm families. The periodical and sudden occurrenceof natural vagaries in the past few years has become a new normal, resulting in the farmingcommunities suffering huge productivity losses in farming and allied sectors. Over a period of timewith their resultant farming experience over years, our farming community has diversified their farmrelated production activities. No longer they are entirely dependent on farming for their livelihoodneeds but derive more economic and nutritional gains from allied sectors. On the other hand, they alsoadopt modern and indigenous climate resilient farm technologies to mitigate climate change issues asa part of their farming activities. However, over a period of time they need to be trained on manyclimate resilient farm technologies to improve their farm yields, reduce losses and achieve sustainablefarm production. Keeping this in view, a study was undertaken in Erumapatty block to study thetraining needs of farmers on Climate resilient farm technologies for improving the livelihood andnutritional security of farming community in Namakkal district of Tamil Nadu. About 120 farmrespondents were selected for this study where National Initiative on Climate Resilient Agriculture(NICRA) scheme was launched in different modules. Training needs related to Capacity building andblending of local resources, Creation of water harvesting structures and New irrigation managementpractices for taking up mitigation measures was assessed as a part of this study. This identified trainingneeds coupled with developing a new extension model for addressing climate change issues inNamakkal district as a part of this study is sure to address many climate change related issues affectingour farmers. It will also assist us in improving the livelihood and nutritional security of our farmingcommunity in the near future.