Abstract
Introduction
The study of resilience among transition-age youth (aged 16–29 years) living with serious mental illness (SMI) has provided a promising new direction for research with the capacity to explore individuals’ strengths and resources. However, variability in how resilience is defined and measured has led to a lack of conceptual clarity. A comprehensive synthesis is needed to understand current trends and gaps in resilience research among this population. The purpose of the current study was to map how resilience has been conceptualized and operationalized among transition-age youth with SMI, explore resilience factors and outcomes that have been studied, and recommend areas for future research.

Methods
A six-stage scoping review methodology was used to systematically identify relevant empirical literature across multiple databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, AMED, CINAHL, Scopus), addressing transition-age youth diagnosed with SMI and resilience. Topic consultation and reaction meetings were conducted to gather feedback from transition-age youth with SMI, researchers, and clinicians during the review process to enhance the applicability of the review findings. A meta-narrative approach was used to organize included studies into research traditions (i.e., paradigms of inquiry with similar storylines, theoretical and methodological orientations). Resilience factors and outcomes, and the consultative meetings, were analyzed using content analysis.

Results
Twenty-four studies met inclusion criteria (14 quantitative, 9 qualitative, 1 mixed-method). Four research traditions were identified, each contributing a unique storyline which conceptualized and operationalized resilience in slightly different ways: Stress Adaptation, Person-Environment Interactions, Recovery-Focused, and Critical and Cultural Perspectives. Resilience factors and outcomes were most commonly evaluated at the individual-level or within the immediate environment (e.g., personal characteristics, social support networks). Limited research has explored the influence of macro-level systems and health inequalities on resilience processes. Results from the consultative meetings further demonstrated the importance of health services and sociocultural factors in shaping processes of resilience among youth.

Conclusion
The present results may be used to inform future work, as well as the development of age-appropriate, strengths-based, and resilience-oriented approaches to service delivery. Interdisciplinary and intersectional research that prioritizes community and youth engagement is needed to advance current understandings of resilience among transition-age youth with SMI.
