
Background
Prehospitalization documentation is a challenging task and prone to loss of information, as paramedics operate under disruptive environments requiring their constant attention to the patients.


Objective
The aim of this study is to develop a mobile platform for hands-free prehospitalization documentation to assist first responders in operational medical environments by aggregating all existing solutions for noise resiliency and domain adaptation.


Methods
The platform was built to extract meaningful medical information from the real-time audio streaming at the point of injury and transmit complete documentation to a field hospital prior to patient arrival. To this end, the state-of-the-art automatic speech recognition (ASR) solutions with the following modular improvements were thoroughly explored: noise-resilient ASR, multi-style training, customized lexicon, and speech enhancement. The development of the platform was strictly guided by qualitative research and simulation-based evaluation to address the relevant challenges through progressive improvements at every process step of the end-to-end solution. The primary performance metrics included medical word error rate (WER) in machine-transcribed text output and an F1 score calculated by comparing the autogenerated documentation to manual documentation by physicians.


Results
The total number of 15,139 individual words necessary for completing the documentation were identified from all conversations that occurred during the physician-supervised simulation drills. The baseline model presented a suboptimal performance with a WER of 69.85% and an F1 score of 0.611. The noise-resilient ASR, multi-style training, and customized lexicon improved the overall performance; the finalized platform achieved a medical WER of 33.3% and an F1 score of 0.81 when compared to manual documentation. The speech enhancement degraded performance with medical WER increased from 33.3% to 46.33% and the corresponding F1 score decreased from 0.81 to 0.78. All changes in performance were statistically significant (P<.001).


Conclusions
This study presented a fully functional mobile platform for hands-free prehospitalization documentation in operational medical environments and lessons learned from its implementation.
