Energy communities and their resiliency are both relatively new subjects of interest that need deeper analysis. The concepts are emerging in the current trend of energy decarbonization, combined with unpredictable external factors, such as extreme weather, or nearby conflicts, such as wars. To be resilient against electrical network supply outages or heavy blackouts, energy communities need appropriate design of their electrical microgrids to maintain an acceptable level of activity in both normal and critical situations. The paper deals with aspects of the design of the electrical network used by energy communities, seen as microgrids designed to offer an acceptable level of safe operation and energy resilience. While electrical network resilience covers both the public network (main grid) and local microgrid of an energy community, the paper focuses on the safe operation and resilience related to the local microgrid as a distinct goal from the one of preserving the main grid’s functionality. The first section considers definitions of energy resilience and some of the existing preoccupations on the subject. A second section of the paper presents different aspects of the design of a microgrid, with the purpose of increasing its safety in operation and energy community resilience. The section addresses electrical network architectures, multiple roles of storage resources related to prosumers and to islanded microgrids with high-RES penetration, and other aspects such as the impact of electrification of heating through, e.g., heat pumps. The next sections present selected use cases, which develop some of these design aspects by using typical real data for the analysis and assessing solutions to address resilient microgrid challenges. The selected use cases consider simplified approaches for real-time and short-term storage needs and operational use in microgrids, maintaining voltage levels in a high-RES scenario by using battery P control, and optimization of storage resources to cope with the needs. Conclusions are given in a final section, which also presents future work for a presumed continuation with other use cases related to storage means, safe operation, and resilient design of energy communities microgrids.