The pandemic Covid-19 had an impact on the entire economy in Indonesia, one of which is the Province of Bali with the advantages of tourism destinations which have now experienced a decline in tourists due to the Covid-19 pandemic with the policy of closing international airports, adjusting regions and policies not to travel between regions. The tourism sector is the sector most affected by the pandemic Covid-19, an estimated 75 million jobs in the tourism sector have experienced shocks and the tourism industry is at risk of losing turnover of more than 2.1 trillion dollars. Domestic tourist visits have also decreased, Indonesian people are reluctant to travel, because they are worried about the impact of the co-19 pandemic. The pandemic Covid- 19 pandemic had a major impact on all aspects of life, especially the tourism sector due to difficulties in travel, cancellation of major events and reluctance to travel internationally and domestically. The economic resilience of tourism actors in Badung Regency, Bali Province has now become a serious problem, which only relies on one big sector, namely tourism. Badung Regency, Bali Province only relies on foreign visits, so that when the international airport is closed, people working in the tourism sector experience a decrease in economic resilience, starting from decreased income to several tourist attractions and tourism businesses in Badung Regency, Bali Province being closed. The research technique used is the literature review method, which uses various related scientific journals, especially those that discuss economic resilience during the pandemic Covid-19, to collect the information needed for research. The findings of this study indicate that the role of family resilience in tourism actors during a pandemic supports the survival of tourism actors. Economic resilience relates to the maintained ability of the economy to recover from the effects of adverse shocks. Surviving the downturn is not enough. Efforts are needed to find out the strategies used to overcome the impact of these shocks.