Transformational changes are an integral part of the development of any social process. Such changes require the attention of managers who aim to form a high level of resilience in organizations in various spheres of activity. The readiness of the manager to adapt the managed organizational system to transformations and target high results in the conditions of change is the task of modern managers. The organization's development in the state of modifications requires managers to communicate effectively with personnel and the external environment. Economic and educational spheres of activity, which are closely interconnected, ensure an increase in the population's standard of living. This determines the need for research and implementation of the principles of resilient management in organizations in this field of activity in society. The research subject in work is the analysis of the principles of resilient management in the conditions of transformational transformations of the modern Ukrainian economy and education. The article aims to identify the critical characteristics of the formation of the stability of organizations during transformations in the country's social processes. The tasks of the research are to analyze the features of economic and educational transformations in modern social processes of the country; describe the connection between the economy and education and the influence of these elements of social relations on the formation of an educated Ukrainian society; identify the main principles of implementing resilient management in the economic and educational spheres of the country. The article uses a general scientific method of research: system analysis - to analyze the features of economic and educational transformations in Ukraine and to study the principles of forming the stability of organizations in such conditions. The main results of the work are the generalization of theoretical data on transformational changes in the economy and education as a driving force for improving the lives of the population and the identification of the main principles of forming the resilience of organizations in transitional periods. Conclusions: the analyzed materials of foreign and Ukrainian scientists and the revealed principles of the formation of the stability of organizations during transformational changes are relevant for managers who aim for effective work results during transitional social processes in the economy and education.