Introduction: in article the problem of psychology of resilience of the personality to difficult life situations, identifications of the factors contributing to the development of resilience of the personality is discussed. Today in psychological literature there is still a lack of researches of resilience of the personality, the factors, such as the external and internal ones, the factors influencing the development of person’s resilience are insufficiently studied. An important point in understanding of formation of mechanisms of resilience of the personality is studying of a role of the educational environment as a factor of resilience of the personality to difficult life situations. In this regard it becomes necessary to generalize the saved-up material in works of the Russian and foreign researchers on a problem of influence of the educational environment as a factor of resilience of the personality to difficult life situations. The results of foreign researchers on the problem of studying of influence of specially organized safe educational environment on the resilience of the personality to difficult life situations are presented in the article. Materials and methods: the article is an analytical review where the attempt of systematization of scientific psychological knowledge of a problem of psychology of resilience of the personality to difficult life situations is made. The main method of studying of resilience of the personality to negative life situations in the conditions of the educational environment is the method of the theoretical analysis of scientific psychological foreign and domestic sources. Subjective approach is the methodological basis for studying of resilience of the personality to difficult life situations. Results of a research: consideration of theoretical provisions of resilience of the personality and empirical researches of foreign authors of influence of the educational environment on the resilience of the personality to difficult life situations in the context of researches of psychology of safety, subject approach, the intra-resources and Inter resources helping to cope with a difficult situation. The authors offer a definition of resilience of the personality in the course of exiting from difficult life situations. The scientific proof of the importance of formation of safe, subjective and positive educational environment when developing resilience of the personality to difficult life situations is consistently provided. Discussion and conclusions: the conclusion about undoubted relevance of the questions connected with a research of resilience of the personality to difficult life situations and existence of foreign psychological researches on this issue is proved. Taking into consideration the results of scarce psychological research carried out by domestic and foreign authors the need for further studying of psychological structure of resilience of the personality to difficult life situations and also factors and conditions of its formation is proved. At the same time the significance and the importance of formation of safe, subject and positive educational environment in development of resilience of the personality to difficult life situations is emphasized.