Background. The management of breast cancer treatments within the limitations of family, social, and professional life is emotionally burdening and negatively affects physical, psychological, and social well-being, reducing the overall quality of life of patients and their families. Methods: This cross-sectional descriptive–analytical study was conducted from March to August 2023 at the “Dr. Radivoj Simonović” General Hospital in Sombor. A total of 236 breast cancer patients participated in this study. The research was conducted using the following instruments: a questionnaire on sociodemographic and clinical characteristics of patients, the Berlin Social-Support Scales—for assessing social support—and the Connor–Davidson Resilience Scale—for assessing resilience. This study aimed to determine the predictors and levels of social support and resilience of breast cancer patients. We also wanted to examine whether resilience is a mediator between patients’ sociodemographic and clinical characteristics and levels of social support. Results: The total average value of social support was 3.51 ± 0.63, while on the resilience scale, the respondents achieved a total average score of 52.2 ± 9.63. Perceived and actually received social support of breast cancer patients were positively correlated with resilience [p < 0.01], while no statistically significant correlations were found for the need for support and satisfaction. The sets of predictors can significantly predict their effects on all types of perceived social support (emotional social support: 9%; perceived instrumental social support: 9%) and all types of received social support (actually received emotional social support: 8%; actually received instrumental social support: 7%; actually received informational social support: 8%). There is a potential mediating role of resilience in relation to sociodemographic factors, clinical characteristics, and the need for support. Conclusion: This study confirms that a strong connection exists between social support and resilience. However, the analysis did not confirm the mediating role of resilience between the sociodemographic and clinical characteristics on the one hand and social support on the other.