Across diverse taxa, sublethal exposure to abiotic stressors early in life can lead to benefits such as increased stress tolerance upon repeat exposure. This phenomenon, known as hormetic priming, is largely unexplored in early life stages of marine invertebrates, which are increasingly threatened by anthropogenic climate change. To investigate this phenomenon, larvae of the sea anemone and model marine invertebrate Nematostella vectensis were exposed to control (18 °C) or elevated (24 °C, 30 °C, 35 °C, or 39 °C) temperatures for 1 h at 3 days post-fertilization (DPF), followed by return to control temperatures (18 °C). The animals were then assessed for growth, development, metabolic rates, and heat tolerance at 4, 7, and 11 DPF. Priming at intermediately elevated temperatures (24 °C, 30 °C, or 35 °C) augmented growth and development compared to controls or priming at 39 °C. Indeed, priming at 39 °C hampered developmental progression, with around 40% of larvae still in the planula stage at 11 DPF, in contrast to 0% for all other groups. Total protein content, a proxy for biomass, and respiration rates were not significantly affected by priming, suggesting metabolic resilience. Heat tolerance was quantified with acute heat stress exposures, and was significantly higher for animals primed at intermediate temperatures (24 °C, 30 °C, or 35 °C) compared to controls or those primed at 39 °C at all time points. To investigate a possible molecular mechanism for the observed changes in heat tolerance, the expression of heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) was quantified at 11 DPF. Expression of HSP70 significantly increased with increasing priming temperature, with the presence of a doublet band for larvae primed at 39 °C, suggesting persistent negative effects of priming on protein homeostasis. Interestingly, primed larvae in a second cohort cultured to 6 weeks post-fertilization continued to display hormetic growth responses, whereas benefits for heat tolerance were lost; in contrast, negative effects of short-term exposure to extreme heat stress (39 °C) persisted. These results demonstrate that some dose-dependent effects of priming waned over time while others persisted, resulting in heterogeneity in organismal performance across ontogeny following priming. Overall, these findings suggest that heat priming may augment the climate resilience of marine invertebrate early life stages via the modulation of key developmental and physiological phenotypes, while also affirming the need to limit further anthropogenic ocean warming.