A comprehensive analysis of "readiness for change" and "tolerance for uncertainty" phenomena in the field of psychological science is presented. Theoretical investigations have shown that the outlined concepts have been widely considered in the works of domestic and foreign scientists. The aim of the work was to empirically study of the readiness for change in the relationship with the components of tolerance for uncertainty in police officers of the special police units with different levels of resilience.
The following psychodiagnostic tools were used in the study: "Resilience test" (O. Rylska), "Personal readiness for change" (Rolnik, Heather, Gold, Hull in adaptation by N. Bazhanova and G. Bardier), "Questionnaire of tolerance to uncertainty" (C Badner in adaptation by G. Soldatova), "Scale of general tolerance to uncertainty" (D. McLain in adaptation by E. Osin) and "New questionnaire of tolerance to uncertainty" (T. Kornilova). For mathematical and statistical processing, cluster analysis using the method of k-means on the principle of "close neighbors" and Spearman's rank correlation coefficient were used. The sample consisted of 84 police officers of the Rapid Response Corps (KORD). With the use of the test for measuring the level of resilience, the author of which is O. Rylska, and with the help of cluster analysis by the method of k-means on the principle of " close neighbors", groups with different levels of resilience were formed. The first group (with a high level) consisted of 28 subjects, the second group (with a low level) included 24 subjects. 32 respondents with an average level of the indicator were excluded from further research. During the study, significant relationships were found between the mentioned phenomena in the police groups studied. The results showed that special forces with a high level of resilience are able to act effectively in conditions of uncertainty, accept changes and bring them into professional activity.
They are psychologically stable, enterprising, responsible and prone to perceive problems as a stimulus to development. Special forces with a low level of resilience have a harder time withstanding difficulties at work, because they feel discomfort in situations that they cannot control, which significantly reduces their effectiveness. However, the actions of the police of the second group are clearer, consistent and thoughtful.