Early maladaptive schemas are defined as structures or patterns that develop throughout childhood and adolescence, consist of memories, cognitions, senses, and physical sensations, are dysfunctional, hurt an individual's self-perception and interpersonal relationships, and emerge throughout life (Young et al., 2003). It's also defined as a person's ability to overcome challenges, problems, uncertainties, and a variety of other adversities while still succeeding. The maladaptive schemas that an individual develops during childhood and adolescence can harm the functionality of the individual. Accordingly, psychological resilience is one of the factors that help prevent maladaptive schemas and maladaptive behaviours that develop despite risk factors. As a result, we investigate the link between early maladaptive schemas and psychological resilience, as well as the link between psychological resilience and the age factor. Personal Information Form, Young Schema Questionnaire Short Form 3 (YSQ/S3), Scale Adult Resilience Scale, was applied to the participants. Spearman and Pearson correlation analyzes and Multiple Linear Regression Analysis were used in the process of transforming the data into findings. The participants consist of 319 adults, 217 (%68) women, and 102 men (%32) volunteers. The youngest participant was 18 years old and the oldest 51 years old (M=31, SD=6). According to the findings of study, it has found a negative connection between psychological resilience and early maladaptive schema are "emotional deprivation, social isolation/alienation, defectiveness, emotional inhibition, dependence/incompetence, abandonment, vulnerability to harm or illness, failure to achieve, negativity/pessimism, insufficient self-control/self-discipline, self-sacrifice, punitiveness, unrelenting standards, approval-seeking" sub-dimensions and there is no relationship only between psychological resilience and unrelenting standards. It is seen that the independent variables of nesting/dependence and vulnerability predict the dependent variable of resilience and explain 22% of the total variance. It was observed that the effect of the sub-dimensions of nesting/dependence and vulnerability were negative. It was found that the variable that most explained psychological resilience was nesting/dependence. In addition, it has been determined that psychological resilience is related to the age factor, and as the age level increases, the psychological resilience also increases. Understanding the role of psychological resilience in adults life can help them improve their stress management self-efficacy, psychological well-being and their general quality of life. Also it is thought that understanding the role of early maldaptive schemas on psychological resilience gives clinitians the way to solving problems or maintaining health along with schema therapy.