Rural development is an essential link in the social governance system, and it is the key to market rural development and enhancing farmers’ living conditions. It is a critical starting point for changing the agricultural landscape and improving agricultural social governance capability. It is also the proper means of encouraging the balanced growth of urban and rural society, as well as traditional wealth. Farmers no longer have to worry about “short of food and clothing,” but “housing challenges” pose a threat to the soundness, harmony, and growth of rural areas, social hazards are increasing, and rural areas in distant western areas continue to create risk and vulnerability of living setting. Most previous studies have focused on economic and regulatory elements; however, this study focuses on the composition of home environment risk factors, as well as the influence of fabric vulnerability, trust vulnerability, and emotional vulnerability produced by risks. To successfully resist residential surroundings threats, improving the effectiveness of risk response and boosting farmers’ resilience are all critical strategies to reduce susceptibility. This study, which employs in-depth interview methodology, explains how the growth of a gorgeous new country must enhance and ensure the safety of farmers’ living surroundings to prevent risk impact, as well as how the country’s resilience should be improved. The findings indicate that, in the technique of rural government, the preservation of living environments is not only one of the primary desires of farmers, but, furthermore, the key to increasing farmers’ flexibility to combat hazards, and also the lone way to come through property rural development. In accordance with the specific situation, the associated countermeasures, square measure, imply: to begin, the highest body’s role placement is treated to weaken the fabric, this weakness caused by the unclear role positioning. Second, we should always encourage excellent communication among subjects about the concept of trust in order to reduce the vulnerability of trust produced by insufficient policy coverage and differences in policy interpretation and knowledge. Third, we should always perceive and satisfy the emotional needs of farmers’ families in order to reduce the emotional vulnerability caused by policies and procedures that neglect their true feelings.