Introduction. In their work, journalists encounter many stressful and potentially psychologically traumatic events. Even journalists who do not work in war zones are at risk of developing PTSD or other mental health issues. In the conditions of a full-scale war, the question arises how to prepare future journalists for such psychologically challenging work. 
Relevance of the study. The development of resilience skills can be a response to the challenges of the journalism profession. Researchers and practicing journalists have been increasingly discussing resilience in recent years. However, in Ukrainian educational institutions, this skill has not yet received due attention. The relevance of our research lies in addressing a topic that is not sufficiently developed in both science and practice. The aim of the article is to outline the role of resilience as a necessary skill in the training of future journalists.
Methodology. A complex of scientific methods was used to achieve the goal of the article. Methods of analysis, generalization and comparison were used to formulate the theoretical foundations of the research. The empirical research was carried out by the survey method using the following psychodiagnostic questionnaires: Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale-10 (CD RISC-10), Brief Resilience Scale (BRS), S. Maddi Hardiness Scale.
Results. Resilience is the ability to effectively adapt to complex life experiences, endure adversities in a way that promotes bouncing back or even bouncing beyond. Professional organizations and media for journalists emphasize the importance of this skill. However, only a few educational institutions abroad offer specialized courses for developing this skill. The urgency of developing resilience in Ukrainian journalism students is evidenced by the data from a pilot study, which showed that about 40 % of respondents had a low level of resilience. 
Conclusions. The pilot study indicates that a significant portion of surveyed journalism students may be unprepared for the psychological challenges of their future profession. Therefore, it is crucial to develop recommendations for journalism department staff regarding the development of students’ resilience.