 1538  Background: As more treatment options become available for advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), oncologists still have difficulty predicting functional resiliency versus functional disability throughout treatment. Functional resiliency refers to the ability to recover baseline functional status in the face of an intervening health care event. This study aims to identify characteristics associated with resilience among adults with advanced NSCLC. Methods: In a prospective cohort of participants with newly diagnosed stage IV NSCLC, resilience was evaluated based on three functional disability items in the EQ-5D-5L (modified: mEQ-5D-5L) through 12 months of follow-up compared to baseline scores. This included patients treated with chemotherapy, immunotherapy, targeted agents and no treatment. Participants were classified into four groups: functional decline, maintenance, resilient, or variable. Resilience was determined based on improvement in disability scores, with a 1-point increase in functional status score representing a 0.5 standard deviation change on the mEQ-5D-5L. Patient characteristics included demographics, comorbidities, ECOG performance status, presence of brain or bone metastases, mood (GAD-7, PHQ-9), and lung cancer-specific symptoms (QLQ-LC13). Treatment toxicity and toxicity grades were also recorded. Differences between groups were determined through Fisher’s exact test or ANOVA. Results: Among 207 participants, 87 (42.0%) maintained functional status, 78 (37.7%) experienced functional decline, 22 (10.6%) were classified as resilient and 20 (9.7%) were variable. Characteristics associated with higher resilience (p < 0.1) included being employed (p = 0.02) and living in a metro setting (p = 0.10). Characteristics not associated with resilience included age, education level, smoking status, presence of brain metastases, ECOG performance status, or psychological symptoms. Approximately half the participants (n = 105, 50.7%) who received treatment experienced toxicities. One third (33.8%) experienced ≥ grade 3 toxicities. There was no significant association between toxicity grade and resilience grouping. Conclusions: Characteristics associated with functional resilience included employment status and living setting. At least half of adults with advanced NSCLC experience treatment-related toxicities. It is important to determine characteristics of resilience to better understand which patients will tolerate cancer treatments. 