Abstract
Breeding programs have improved productive and reproductive efficiency in worldwide swine populations. However, greater performance is often accompanied by reduced climatic resilience due to greater metabolic heat production. Genomic selection is an effective tool for alleviating the negative effects of heat stress, but it requires traits that effectively capture the physiological, behavioral, and morphological mechanisms regulating the heat stress response. In this presentation we will first describe the genetic background of heat tolerance based on routinely recorded phenotypes (growth, carcass composition, and reproduction) and climatic variables obtained from public-weather-station databases. There are clear genotype-by-environment interactions across environmental conditions and the definition of the critical periods for quantifying the environmental gradient directly impacts the accuracy of genomic prediction of breeding values for heat tolerance. Secondly, we will describe the genetic background of various behavioral, physiological, and morphological indicators of heat stress in maternal line pigs, including automatically recorded vaginal temperature, skin temperature measured in different body locations and times of the day, respiration rate, panting score, body condition score, hair cortisol, hair density, and ear area. These traits are heritable and can be successfully included in genomic breeding programs. Furthermore, we will discuss the transgenerational effects of heat stress in maternal-line pigs, including an epigenomic analyses of in-utero heat stress that identified over 200 genomic regions that are differentially methylated. In summary, we will: 1) provide a comprehensive description of the environmental-gradient variables and critical periods fitted in genomic evaluations of heat tolerance; 2) describe the genetic background of various indicators of heat tolerance, including heritability, genetic correlations, candidate genes, differentially-methylated regions, and metabolic pathways associated with the significant genomic regions; 3) present the accuracies of genomic predictions for each indicator trait; and, 5) make recommendations for the implementation of genomic selection for improved heat tolerance in pigs. This research was supported by the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative (AFRI) Competitive Grants number 2020-67015-31575 and 2021-67015-34458 from the USDA National Institute of Food and Agriculture.