Software-Defined Networking (SDN) provides the prospect of logically centralized management in industrial networks and simplified programming among devices. It also facilitates the reconfiguration of connectivity when there is a network element failure. This paper presents a new Industrial SDN (ISDN) resilience that addresses the gap between two types of resilience: the first is restoration while the second is protection. Using a restoration approach increases the recovery time proportionally to the number of affected flows contrarily to the protection approach which attains the fast recovery. Nevertheless, the protection approach utilizes more flow rules (flow entries) in the switch which in return increments the lookup time taken to discover an appropriate flow entry in the flow table. This can have a negative effect on the end-to-end delay before a failure occurs (in the normal situation). In order to balance both approaches, we propose a Mixed Fast Resilience (MFR) approach to ensure the fast recovery of the primary path without any impact on the end-to-end delay in the normal situation. In the MFR, the SDN controller establishes a new path after failure detection and this is based on flow rules stored in its memory through the dynamic hash table structure as the internal flow table. At that time, it transmits the flow rules to all switches across the appropriate secondary path simultaneously from the failure point to the destination switch. Moreover, these flow rules which correspond to secondary paths are cached in the hash table by considering the current minimum path weight. This strategy leads to reduction in the load at the SDN controller and the calculation time of a new working path. The MFR approach applies the dual primary by considering several metrics such as packet-loss probability, delay, and bandwidth which are the Quality of Service (QoS) requirements for many industrial applications. Thus, we have built a simulation network and conducted an experimental testbed. The results showed that our resilience approach reduces the failure recovery time as opposed to the restoration approaches and is more scalable than a protection approach. In the normal situation, the MFR approach reduces the lookup time and end-to-end delay than a protection approach. Furthermore, the proposed approach improves the performance by minimizing the packet loss even under failing links.