Abstract
Background
The workplace has been identified as a key determinant of health status. There is evidence of innumerable health problems among employees, particularly healthcare workers. Against this background, a holistic-systemic approach together with a good theoretical framework is required to reflect on this issue, and to support the design of effective interventions to promote the health and wellbeing of the given population. The present study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of an educational intervention in improving resilience, social capital, psychological wellbeing, and health-promoting lifestyle in healthcare workers, utilizing the Social Cognitive Theory integrated into the PRECEDE-PROCEED model.

Methods
This randomized controlled trial will be performed on a large sample of the employees working in two healthcare centers in the city of Shiraz, Iran. The study will proceed with the healthcare workers of one city being given the educational intervention and the healthcare workers of the other city serving as a control group. Using a census method, all healthcare workers in the two cities will be informed of the trial and its purpose, and then invitations to join the study will be issued. The minimum sample size required has been calculated as 66 individuals in each healthcare centers. Recruitment to the trial will by systematic random sampling of eligible employees who submit an expression of interest in joining the trial, and subsequently give informed consent. Data will be collected through a self-administered survey instrument at three stages: at baseline, and both immediately and three months after the intervention. The experimental group members should participate in at least eight of the ten weekly educational sessions of the intervention and complete the surveys in the three stages. There is no educational intervention for the control group, and they simply experience some routine programs, and complete the surveys at the same three timepoints.

Discussion
The findings will provide evidence for the possible effectiveness of a theory-based educational intervention to improve resilience, social capital, psychological wellbeing, and health-promoting lifestyle among healthcare workers. If the educational intervention is found to be effective, then its protocol will be exploited in other organizations to boost resilience.
Trial registration IRCT20220509054790N1.
