
Purpose
People-related factors are very significant barriers for the internationalisation of large and small firms. Although the literature has identified a number of steps that SMEs need to take to increase their resilience in international markets, a study that identifies both the resilience and non-resilience barriers for SME internationalisation has not been undertaken in the scientific fields Human Resource Management and International Business. This paper aims to examine resilience and non-resilience barriers faced by SMEs in a developing country. In addition to the resilience literature, they examine non-resilience and combine its characteristics with resilience barriers from the Bangladeshi context.


Design/methodology/approach
Quantitative data analysis technique is used in this study to identify the impacts of these resilience/non-resilience issues’ internationalisation of SMEs both from micro and macro levels. This study has used primary data collected through the questionnaires from 212 Bangladeshi SMEs. Based on the data, this study has developed and validated partial least square-based structural equation model to assess the impacts of resilience factors on the internationalisation of SMEs with particular attention to entrepreneurial attractiveness.


Findings
It has successfully framed resilience vs non-resilience barriers of the internationalisation of SMEs as a second-order hierarchical reflective model and found that internationalisation of SMEs is significantly influenced by the resilience factors where language and related socio-cultural issues are marginally more significant.


Research limitations/implications
A couple of limitations include the following. First, concentrating on resilience and non-resilience serves as a limitation as the authors could have had resilience vs other categories such political, economic, legal and technological barriers. Second, they have mainly used cross-sectional data by using the survey method. This study could have been better served had they also tried to combine the use of qualitative analysis as attempted elsewhere.


Practical implications
Practically, this study researched in an area which was neglected and under-reported by existing studies. Its exploration showed that it has potential to contribute significantly to the policymakers and implementers, as it comprises SMEs and emerging countries. It has been noted in the literature that these economies and firms are less capable to conduct research independently, as they are resource-constrained.


Social implications
The results reveal that both resilience- and non-resilience-related barriers are significant to SMEs internationalisation. However, if policymakers were to give priority to any one of these, they should give marginally more priority to resilience-type barriers compared to the non-resilience barriers to internationalisation.


Originality/value
To date, studies on resilience have concentrated on identifying challenges faced by firms and what types of behaviours are required by individual members so as to enhance survival. However, there are no studies so far on identifying or even modelling both resilience and non-resilience barriers within the context of SMEs internationalisation in developing countries. This study combines resilience and non-resilience factors in a model to find out their contribution especially in the under explored area of non-resilience from a Bangladeshi contextual perspective that seeks to encourage international entrepreneurship.
