AbstractPurposeThe number of multicultural families has increased globally, and Korea has also witnessed a surge. Along with the various challenges experienced by these families, a child with a disability can pose additional challenges. In‐depth knowledge about resilience factors among multicultural families of children with disabilities is important. The aim of this study was to examine relationships between family demands, family appraisals, family problem solving and coping, family resources, and family adaptation in multicultural families of children with disabilities in Korea as perceived by married immigrants.DesignThis study was based on a secondary analysis of national survey data in 2015 and 2018 in Korea.MethodsA total of 256 multicultural families who have children with disabilities participated. Family demands were identified by examining marital conflict, cultural differences, marital status, and public assistance recipient households. Family appraisal was assessed by how the family perceived the married immigrant’s culture. Family problem solving and coping were examined by how actively a married immigrant participated in social activities. Family resources were assessed by examining Korean language competency and the health status of immigrants. Family adaptation was identified by how immigrants perceived their life satisfaction. Path analysis was used to assess the factors.FindingsFamily demands had a direct impact on family resources and family adaptation. Family appraisal had a direct impact on family adaptation. Family resources mediated the effect of family demands on family adaptation.ConclusionsThis study demonstrated that although a multicultural family of a child with a disability struggles with family demands, if the family receives positive resources from family members, they can adapt well. Current findings can be used to develop interventions that can foster greater resilience among families.Clinical RelevanceThis study provides evidence that nurses can target modifiable family aspects, including immigrants’ health and family perceptions of immigrants’ cultures identified in this study to enhance the immigrant and family adaptation.