
Purpose
Community-based disaster management and access to social resilience during disasters are fundamentally based on the concept of participation of all social groups. Up to now, no comprehensive study has been done regarding adolescents’ roles and experiences in all stages of disaster management, and discussions existing in the domain of adolescents’ engagement in disaster risk management are usually restricted to children’s participation. Thus, this study aims to extract the effective components and factors in disaster education to improve adolescents’ resilience to disasters.


Design/methodology/approach
This systematic review was done through English databases and three Persian databases between August 18, 2001, and August 31, 2021. The articles were searched based on the PRISMA checklist using four key dimensions of “resilience,” “disasters,” “adolescents” and “education.” Finally, the effective components and factors in disaster education for improving adolescents’ resilience during disasters were extracted.


Findings
Totally, 29,856 articles were extracted through the systematic review. After studying the titles, abstracts and contents of the extracted articles, 17 were selected for the final analysis. Among these articles, 3, 12 and 2 had qualitative, quantitative and mixed research designs, respectively. The extracted components were categorized into five major categories including education, community, adolescents, resilience and governing policies and approaches.


Research limitations/implications
Unfortunately, due to sanctions, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences did not have access to the Embase database, and consequently, this database could not be used.


Originality/value
The results of this systematic review presented an overall view of the effective components of adolescents’ disaster resilience education. The formation of thoughts developed feelings, and social knowledge in this age group provides a wide range of opportunities for social empowerment and intergenerational knowledge transfer.
