A transdisciplinary approach (TDA) for disaster risk reduction (DRR) is an inclusive and collaborative implementation strategy that brings together stakeholders from various disciplines and sectors. TDA facilitates the collective efforts of diverse stakeholders, encouraging them to work together to co-produce and co-implement solutions that reduce disaster risks. Technical Committee 21, “Transdisciplinary approach for building societal resilience to disasters (TC21),” was established as a technical committee of the Asian Civil Engineering Coordinating Council in 2016. TC21 has been engaged in international collaborative research activities aimed at mitigating water-related disasters by introducing scientific, knowledge-based decision making using the TDA.
This special issue features four case studies that analyze DRR efforts through the lens of the TDA. One such case covers Xinshan Village in Taiwan, which sustained devastating impacts from Typhoon Morakot in 2009. Through collaborative efforts involving all levels of government, residents, academia, and specialists, the village successfully prevented there being any casualties. The second study focuses on the Cross-ministerial Strategic Innovation Promotion Program in Japan, a program which is developing disaster risk information systems through collaboration with local municipalities. These systems play crucial disaster management roles on the ground. The third study examines the mechanisms of cost- and responsibility-sharing for disaster management, developed by Japan and the US, and highlights the importance of collaboration and shared accountability in building resilient societies. The fourth study analyzes statement publications at the UN Global Platform for DRR and finds that the number of member states publishing official statements is decreasing.
The findings of these articles demonstrate that collaboration, technology, and investment is crucial for DRR and that these areas can be developed through the TDA.  By fostering collaboration, embracing technology, and investing in resilient solutions, stakeholders can collectively build more resilient societies.