
Purpose
Most companies struggle to meet the dual goals of sustaining competitive advantage and ensuring high resilience during crises. Those that do, research tells, adapt their operational practices along the crisis cycle, combining an effective cost approach at the start of a crisis, while quickly relaunching their investment to grow ahead of competition, just when they learn that the crisis is peaking, and not too late, when the crisis is over. This cycle alignment is possibly the crucial, but not the only, factor for success. We update early research to show that companies succeeding in this dual objective also take a proactive strategy approach of capturing the complementarities between both performance and resilience during a period of high turbulence. This complementarity relies on exploiting dynamic capabilities common to both resilience and performance, and on leveraging the resilience process as a foundation for strategic renewal going forward.


Design/methodology/approach
The research relies on case studies, complemented by an original survey sample, collected just after the peak of the covid-19 pandemic, of 4,000 multinational firms spread across 18 industries termed NACE2, a statistical classification of economic activities in the European Community. This study included 10 countries outside the European Community. The sample collects information on five core enterprise capabilities (agility, innovativeness, active ecosystem play and digital/sustainability maturity, flexible work practices) and uses a variety of quantitative techniques to assess that existence and size of synergies captured by firms.


Findings
Companies meeting the dual goal of resilience and performance are more than doubling their rate of profit growth relatively to peers, after the peak of the crisis, by leveraging of synergies between performance and resilience.


Originality/value
The topic is essential for management, given the elevated turbulence. This research confirms that resilience and performance are synergistic and helps make companies using each crisis boost performance forward.
