 Resilience, or successful coping with the experience of stressful life events (SLEs), protects against depression, but its operational mechanisms are unclear. Views diverge whether resilience intervenes as a trait or as a process of dynamic interactions of protective factors, such as self-esteem, social support and family cohesion. We evaluated five theoretically-based models of how resilience, defined as either a trait or a process, interacts with recent SLEs, to explain depressive symptomatology in 2434 university students. The moderating effect of problematic, age-inappropriate parenting (i.e., helicopter parenting) was also assessed. SLEs moderated both the effects of trait and process resilience on depression, but models conceptualising resilience as a dynamic process of interacting components showed better explanatory power than models conceptualising resilience solely as a trait. Trait resilience was protective through self-esteem at all levels of SLEs exposure (low, mild, moderate or high), and significantly, but less so through hope or social support. Experiencing helicopter parenting weakened the protective influence of process resilience, through decreasing family cohesion in the presence of SLEs. The overall assessment of the five models supports a process conceptualisation of resilience to depression in the face of adversity. However, the results also suggest that not all protective factors are equally important, with self-esteem appearing a significant and strong mediator of resilience to depression in all models including it as a variable. Building process resilience is proposed as a key intervention target for depressive symptoms. Clinical assessments and interventions following SLEs should routinely consider both trait resilience and self-esteem, as the interaction of these two factors protects against depression even at the highest levels of adversity exposure. Depression prevention approaches should address the individual’s experience of overparenting, given the deleterious influence of helicopter parenting on resilience. 