The integration of power-electronics-based power plants is developing significantly due to the proliferation of renewable energy sources. Although this type of power plant could positively affect society in terms of clean and sustainable energy, it also brings adverse effects, especially with the stability of the power system. The lack of inertia and different dynamic characteristics are the main issues associated with power-electronics-based power plants that could affect the oscillatory behaviour of the power system. Hence, it is important to design a comprehensive damping controller to damp oscillations due to the integration of a power-electronics-based power plant. This paper proposes a damping method for enhancing the oscillatory stability performance of power systems with high penetration of renewable energy systems. A resilient wide-area multimodal controller is proposed and used in conjunction with a battery energy storage system (BESS) to enhance the damping of critical modes. The proposed control also addresses resiliency issues associated with control signals and controllers. The optimal tuning of the control parameters for this proposed controller is challenging. Hence, the firefly algorithm was considered to be the optimisation method to design the wide-area multimodal controllers for BESS, wind, and photovoltaic (PV) systems. The performance of the proposed approach was assessed using a modified version of the Java Indonesian power system under various operating conditions. Both eigenvalue analysis and time-domain simulations are considered in the analysis. A comparison with other well-known metaheuristic methods was also carried out to show the proposed method’s efficacy. Obtained results confirmed the superior performance of the proposed approach in enhancing the small-signal stability of renewable-rich power systems. They also revealed that the proposed multimodal controller could enhance the penetration of renewable energy sources in the Javan power system by up to 50%.