This quantitative-correlational research design determined the significant relationship between psychological well-being, resilience quotient, and teachers’ teaching effectiveness. A total of 96 respondents were used, and they were identified through Simple Random Sampling. Before the study, pilot testing was done to determine its reliability through the Cronbach Alpha with an overall value of 0.987, which is interpreted as “excellent.” The questionnaires were sent via e-mails to the respondents. The results of the level of teachers’ resilience revealed that the level of highest mean among the indicators of teachers’ psychological well-being goes to Self- acceptance, and autonomy with a mean weighted of 4.32 (SD=1.04) interpreted as “Agree” while the lowest mean goes to Environmental mastery and Positive relations with others with the mean score of 3.84 (SD=1.17) interpreted as “Moderately Disagree”. As to the level of teachers’ resilience quotient, the highest mean among the indicators of teachers’ resilience goes to Flexibility and Adaptability with a mean score of 5.16 (SD=0.81), interpreted as “Strongly Agree”, meaning Very Resilient. while the lowest mean goes to Social Connectivity, with a mean score of 4.80 (SD=1.01) is interpreted as “Agree”, which is resilient. Lastly, in terms of the level of teaching effectiveness of the respondents, the highest mean among the indicators of teacher’s teaching effectiveness goes to Cognitive Presence with a mean score of 5.28 (SD= 0.75) interpreted as Strongly Agree. Based on the findings of the study, it is concluded that the hypothesis stating that there was no significant relationship between demographic profile and psychological well-being was partially (or slightly) upheld. The hypothesis stating that there was no significant relationship between resiliency quotient and psychological well-being was partially upheld. The hypothesis stating that there was no significant relationship between resiliency quotient and teaching effectiveness was partly (or majority) upheld. Important recommendations were made at the end of the study. School Administrators may first consider implementing the intervention plan proposed by the researcher, which will help support teachers and students.
