AbstractThe objective of this study was to explore children's and caregivers’ experiences and management of postoperative recovery at home after tonsil surgery. The study had an explorative qualitative design with an inductive approach. Twenty children (5‐12 years of age) undergoing tonsillectomy or tonsillotomy with or without adenoidectomy participated along with their caregivers in semi‐structured interviews at a mean time of 28 days after surgery. The interviews were analyzed with content analysis. One main category emerged from the interviews: children and caregivers struggle to establish resilience in a challenging recovery. The families’ resilience relied on their situational awareness and capacity to act, which in turn formed a basis for the ability to return to normal daily life. Children and caregivers described the recovery as an evident interruption of daily life which had an impact on the children's physical and psychological well‐being. Both children and caregivers described the pain as a central concern. The families used different pharmacological and complementary strategies to manage the pain, which in some cases were complex. Some families said that the analgesics were insufficient in preventing breakthrough pain, and spoke about a lack of support as well as inadequate and contradictory information from healthcare staff. Caregivers also expressed uncertainty, ambivalence, or anxiety about the responsibility associated with their child's recovery. To optimize and support the recovery after tonsil surgery, it is crucial to obtain knowledge of children's and caregivers’ perspectives of postoperative recovery at home. The results indicate that the postoperative period included several troublesome experiences for which neither the children nor the caregivers were informed or prepared. The experience of pain was significant, and often complex to manage. To increase families’ resilience, the information provided by healthcare professionals needs to be broadened. Multidisciplinary teamwork is necessary to achieve this goal.