Background: Despite improving diagnostic and surgical techniques, some patients do not respond as well as others following hip arthroscopy. In most musculoskeletal studies, predictors for surgical outcomes focus solely on physical health prior to surgery. However, there likely exists a relationship between a patient’s mental health and their postoperative patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs). Methods: 40 patients who met indications for hip arthroscopy were enrolled in this prospective cohort study. All patients completed a baseline Brief Resilience Scale (BRS) and 4validated PROMs: modified Harris Hip Score (mHHS), visual analogue scale for pain (VAS), Hip Outcomes Score for Activities of Daily Living (HOS-Daily), and Hip Outcomes Score for Sports-Related Activities (HOS-Sport). For a secondary measure of psychometric evaluation, past medical histories of anxiety/depression were recorded. Patients were stratified into Low Resilience (LR < 21), Normal Resilience (NR 22-24), and High Resilience (HR > 25) by tertile to determine differences in PROMs. Comparisons and correlations of pre- and postoperative outcomes between resilience groups were performed. Results: In comparing the LR and HR groups, there was a significant relationship between resilience and all PROMs both preoperatively and 6 months postoperatively ( p < 0.05), with the exception of the HOS-Sports. Pearson Correlation Coefficients confirmed this trend in the mHHS and the HOS-Daily. Additionally, there were sixteen patients who were discharged prior to 6-month follow-up with an average resilience above the mean of total population ( p < 0.0001). Resilience was associated with return to activity ( p = 0.017). A past history of anxiety/depression was associated with lower resilience ( p = 0.039). Conclusions: This study showed that HR hip arthroscopy patients had better PROMs than LR patients both preoperatively and postoperatively. HR patients were able to return to activity earlier and had lower rates of preoperative anxiety/depression. The BRS is a simple in-office screening tool, which may help guide patient and doctor communication and expectations. 