Aim: Adolescence is a transition period from childhood to adulthood and this tender age between the ages of 12 - 19 years is usually riddled with uncertainties and difficulties as the children are faced with peer pressures, social media, career choices and parents' expectations.  According to UNICEF and other research publications, ensuring emotional well-being and resilience in adolescents' formative years can foster a better transition from childhood to adulthood.  This is the time when our youth is most prone to emotional imbalances. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) by 2020, 50% of the youth will be under-served.  World bodies like the United Nations estimates that at-least 1 billion school going children have been affected globally by the closure of schools due to the Covid pandemic. The mental health and wellbeing of at least 332 million children are at risk, warns UNICEF.  So there is an urgent need to take appropriate steps so that adolescents can attain normal, healthy growth and become productive and positive contributors to society. Yoga is proposed to offer methods for regulation and resilience through the integrated practices of yama and niyama   (ethical intentional principals) asana ( physical exercise), pranayama (breathing techniques) and meditation. This study aims to introduce and establish the seeds of Yoga in young minds, and how the practice of simple Yoga techniques can help manage stress, maintain emotional well-being and resilience.
Methodology: The approach incorporates methods on how to engage children and gradually introduce the Yogic practices and convince them to use Yoga to manage stress, emotional well-being and build resilience to maintain a healthy body and mind.  The methodology inculcates our age-old wisdom from classical texts like Patanjali Yoga Sutras, Yoga Vasishta and Bhagavad Gita, and combined with contemporary techniques to suit the current generation of youngsters. Classical texts were thoroughly investigated for references to yogic principles apt for today's modern world and these are verified on a group of young children using Hypothesis testing and statistical analysis.
Conclusion: Youth is a valuable asset for any country.  The consequences of not addressing the emotional well-being and mental health of adolescence extends into adulthood, thereby impairing both physical and mental health and limiting opportunities to lead fulfilling lives as adults.  Scientific research studies all over the world have revealed that following yogic practices can play an important role to manage stress, emotional well-being and thereby improve resilience.  The methodology used showed positive results with a group of 50+ children to introduce yoga and help maintain lower stress and emotional wellbeing, and boost immunity and build resilience.   Highly resilient people are flexible, adapt to new circumstances quickly and thrive in constant change.  

Keywords: Emotional Well-Being, Resilience, Yoga, Teens, Adolescence