Presenting Author: Priscilla Doyle, MAOrganisation: National University of Ireland Galway, Galway city, Galway, IrelandCo-Authors:Name: Niamh GallagherDegrees: B.A (International), M.A Health PromotionOrganisation: National University of Ireland Galway, Galway city, Galway, IrelandName: Siobhán SmythDegrees: RPN, PhDOrganisation: National University of Ireland Galway, Galway city, Galway, IrelandName: Dympna CaseyDegrees: RGN, BA, MA, PhdOrganisation: National University of Ireland Galway, Galway city, Galway, IrelandBackground:A dementia diagnosis can prevent people from participating in society, leading to a further decline in cognitive, social and physical health. However, it may be possible for people with dementia to continue to live meaningful lives and continue to participate actively in society if a supportive psychosocial environment exists. This feasibility study seeks to create such an environment by determining the feasibility of conducting a multifaceted complex resilience-building psychosocial intervention for people with dementia and their caregivers living in the community.Method:Ten participants with dementia and their primary caregivers living in the community were recruited and received the CREST intervention. The intervention provided (a) a 7-week cognitive stimulation programme (CST) followed by an 8-week physical exercise programme for people with dementia and (b) a 6-week educational programme for caregivers. Members of the wider community were invited to a dementia awareness programme and GP practices to a dementia-training workshop. Trained professionals delivered all intervention components. Outcomes assessed the feasibility and acceptability of all study processes such as: recruitment; intervention content and delivery; and data collection methods.Results:Recruiting participants was difficult, with local community organisations/groups proving more successful than GP practices. Preliminary results indicate that participants (people with dementia and carers) enjoyed the content of the CREST intervention, that the delivery method and timing worked well and overall found the programme beneficial. Carers reported that the educational programme provided them with valuable information which was accessible and easy to understand. However, the group activities and learning from each other was identified as crucial to their enjoyment and learning. The people with dementia likewise enjoyed the CST and exercise components, some reporting that the CST enhanced their concentration and that exercising with an exercise buddy was more sociable and enjoyable.Conclusion:The evidence from participants indicates that CREST is feasible and acceptable to carers and people with dementia in the community.