Abstract. Introduction. The escalation of political and military conflicts in the world and the COVID-19 pandemic have led to significant human losses and caused the activation of destructive socio-economic processes in the world, which have a negative impact on ensuring the resilience of regional socio-economic security guarantee systems. National systems of socioeconomic security suffer from macroeconomic instability, critical changes in the conditions of operation, transmission of threats of a military and economic nature. In these conditions, the problem of revitalizing the development of insurance markets as a basis for ensuring the resilience of the systems of guaranteeing social and economic security of the regions is an important problem and meets the current needs of society and the economy. Purpose. The purpose of the article is to evaluate the development of insurance markets as a basis for ensuring the resilience of the systems of guaranteeing social and economic security of the regions. Results. The dynamics of the growth of insurance premiums in the world for 2016-2021 were analyzed and it was found that the cumulative average annual growth rate of global gross insurance premiums for the period 2016-2021 is 4.0%, while in North and South America this indicator was 5.5%. In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, this indicator was only 1.3%, in the AsiaPacific region - 3.3%. Conclusions. Among the main threats to the development of insurance markets as a basis for ensuring the resilience of regional socio-economic security guarantee systems, the following are expediently highlighted: geopolitical upheavals, a high level of military threats in the world; significant weakening of economic stability; the situation on the energy market; disruption of supply chains; growing inflationary risk; COVID-19. Among the main opportunities for the development of insurance markets as a basis for ensuring the resilience of regional socio-economic security guarantee systems, the following are highlighted: digitalization opportunities; raising awareness of mortality and health risks; risk reassessment in the field of commercial insurance.