Despite the indisputable negative psychosocial consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, positive consequences are also possible. Resilience and coping strategies have been assumed to contribute to these outcomes. However, findings are still scarce and inconclusive. The study aimed to examine the role of resilience and coping strategies in the secondary stress for the Greek healthcare workers (HCWs) and in the posttraumatic growth following the COVID-19 lockdown in Greece. A sample of 673 HCWs coming from Greece were recruited. A convenience and snowball mixed sampling procedure were used. A questionnaire was distributed through social networking sites, webpages, and personal contacts of the author. Participants were asked to distribute it to their own contacts. Recruitment occurred during April 5 - 30, 2000, amid the lockdown (March 23-May 03), when people were asked to follow the stringent lockdown constraint enforced by the Greek government. Sociodemographic data were collected. The Secondary Traumatic Stress Scale measured secondary traumatic stress (STS) for the HCWs. The Post-Traumatic Growth Inventory, the Brief Resilience Scale, and the Coping Orientation to Problems Experienced Inventory measured posttraumatic growth, resilience, and coping strategies, respectively. Regression analyses demonstrated that resilience and coping strategies were differentially associated with positive and negative (stress/growth) lockdown outcomes. Resilience and mostly maladaptive coping strategies predicted STS. A mixture of adaptive and maladaptive coping strategies predicted PTG. The so-called “second wave” of the outbreak that started in August 2020 indicates that the study of the psychosocial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown and of the internal resources (resilience and coping) to deal with, is necessary. The findings contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of the coping strategies used by population subgroups (e.g., HCWs) in dealing with the COVID-19 lockdown in Greece. Enhancing internal resources through supportive services will ameliorate HCWs ability to withstand, recover, and thrive with benefits in their psychological health and well-being. Despite the indisputable negative psychosocial consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, positive consequences are also possible. Resilience and coping strategies have been assumed to contribute to these outcomes. However, findings are still scarce and inconclusive. The study aimed to examine the role of resilience and coping strategies in the secondary stress for the Greek healthcare workers (HCWs) and in the posttraumatic growth following the COVID-19 lockdown in Greece. A sample of 673 HCWs coming from Greece were recruited. A convenience and snowball mixed sampling procedure were used. A questionnaire was distributed through social networking sites, webpages, and personal contacts of the author. Participants were asked to distribute it to their own contacts. Recruitment occurred during April 5 - 30, 2000, amid the lockdown (March 23-May 03), when people were asked to follow the stringent lockdown constraint enforced by the Greek government. Sociodemographic data were collected. The Secondary Traumatic Stress Scale measured secondary traumatic stress (STS) for the HCWs. The Post-Traumatic Growth Inventory, the Brief Resilience Scale, and the Coping Orientation to Problems Experienced Inventory measured posttraumatic growth, resilience, and coping strategies, respectively. Regression analyses demonstrated that resilience and coping strategies were differentially associated with positive and negative (stress/growth) lockdown outcomes. Resilience and mostly maladaptive coping strategies predicted STS. A mixture of adaptive and maladaptive coping strategies predicted PTG. The so-called “second wave” of the outbreak that started in August 2020 indicates that the study of the psychosocial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown and of the internal resources (resilience and coping) to deal with, is necessary. The findings contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of the coping strategies used by population subgroups (e.g., HCWs) in dealing with the COVID-19 lockdown in Greece. Enhancing internal resources through supportive services will ameliorate HCWs ability to withstand, recover, and thrive with benefits in their psychological health and well-being.