AbstractBackgroundChildren with medical complexity (CMC) account for 1% of children in the United States. These children experience frequent hospital readmissions, high healthcare costs and poor health outcomes. A link between CMC caregiver social support, resilience and hospital readmissions has never been fully investigated. This study examines the feasibility of a prospective, descriptive, repeated measures research design to characterize CMC and their caregivers, social supports, caregiver resilience and hospital readmissions to inform a larger prospective investigation.MethodsCaregivers of CMC with unplanned hospitalizations completed surveys at the index hospitalization and 30 and 60 days after discharge. CMC caregiver and child characteristics, social supports and hospital readmissions were examined using an investigator‐developed survey. Resilience was measured using the Resilience Scale‐14© (7‐Point Likert Scale, score range 14–98), and feasibility was measured by calculating enrolment, attrition, survey completion and item response. Analysis included descriptive statistics and qualitative data visualization.ResultsOf caregivers who were approached for participation, 81.1% consented  and completed 76 surveys. Attrition was 31%. Item response rates were ≥ 90% for all but one item. A total of 62.1% of children had hospital readmissions within 90 days and 37.9% within 30 days. Additionally, 70% of caregivers had home care nursing, but the approved hours were only partially filled. More than 70% of caregiver resilience scores were moderate to high (score range 74–98) and were stable across repeated measures and hospital readmissions. Open‐ended question responses revealed the following five categories: All‐consuming, Family Reliance, Impact of Covid, Taking Action and Broken System.ConclusionsStudying CMC caregiver social supports and resilience using repeated measures is feasible. CMC caregivers reported stressors including coordinating their child's substantial healthcare needs and managing partially filled home care nursing hours. Caregiver resilience remained stable over time, amidst frequent CMC hospital readmissions. Findings can inform future research priorities and power analyses for CMC caregiver resilience.