It is well known that pedagogical professional activity is characterized by excessive stress. First of all, this is due to the high level of responsibility of the teacher. This profession has a low social status, as a result of which employees of educational institutions constantly feel social insecurity. These factors significantly affect the neuro-mental stability of teachers and cause chronic stress.
The purpose of the article is to theoretically and empirically investigate the psychological features of resilience in in teachers, to determine the competencies and characteristics of personality that will help teachers to becomeresilience to stressors they constantly face in their work, while maintaining efficiency and effectiveness in performing professional responsibilities. Domestic and foreign approaches to the definition of resilience have been analyzed in the article. Resilience is defined as person’s stability to the effects of stressful events and factors, while maintaining the ability to recover and the desire to develop and grow as a professional. The issue of psychological features of resilience and stress resistance in accordance with the specifics of the teacher's activity has been revealed.An empirical research of the levels of resilience and stress resistance of teachers and students-future teachers has been conducted using psychodiagnostic techniques: «Brief Resilience Scale» by B. Smith and «Stress Resistance Test» by Yu. Shcherbatykh. The research has showed mostly low and medium levels of resilience in both teachers and future teachers. Both samples had an average level of general indicator of stress resistance, but the scale «Destructive ways to overcome stress» among students-future teachers showed a high level, indicating a lack of skills in effective behavior in stressful situations. Empirical data have been processed and analyzed using methods of mathematical statistics (Pearson's correlation coefficient). As a result, a correlation has been established between the scales of the method «Stress Resistance Test» by Yu. Shcherbatykh: psychosomatics and increased reaction to circumstances; psychosomatics and the tendency to complicate things. The inverse correlation has been defined between resilience and the Psychosomatics scale.