
Purpose
In Africa, poverty and food insecurity is pervasive due to intertwined factors including, declining crop yields, land degradation and inadequate policy and institutional support. With ever-increasing populations, climate change effects will be intensified, and a major crisis is inevitable unless measures to sustain land resources are urgently taken. This paper aims to argue that vibrant rural institutions are necessary to ensure food security and environmental protection, consequently contributing to climate change resilience.


Design/methodology/approach
The paper demonstrates the role of institutions by evaluating two types of institutions and their impacts the “status quo” and “hybrid” institutions using case studies from the African Highlands Initiative in Uganda and International Forestry Resources and Institutions in Kenya. It further discusses a model that highlights factors affecting smallholder investment in natural resources management and how these can be used to strengthen local institutions in building their resilience against climate change effects.


Findings
Weak grassroots institutions characterized by low capacity, failure to exploit collective capital and poor knowledge sharing and access to information, are common barriers to sustainable land management and improved food security.


Research limitations/implications
Case studies from Uganda and IFRI in Kenya barriers in data collection instruments and language.


Practical implications
In Africa, poverty and food insecurity is pervasive due to intertwined factors including, declining crop yields, land degradation and inadequate policy and institutional support. With ever increasing populations, climate change effects will be intensified, and a major crisis is inevitable unless measures to sustain land resources are urgently taken.


Social implications
In Africa, poverty and food insecurity is pervasive due to intertwined factors including, declining crop yields, land degradation and inadequate policy and institutional support. With ever-increasing populations, climate change effects will be intensified, and a major crisis is inevitable unless measures to sustain land resources are urgently taken.


Originality/value
The paper further discusses a model that highlights factors affecting smallholder investment in natural resources management and how these can be used to strengthen local institutions in building their resilience against climate change effects.
