Much attention is paid worldwide to the development of interventions that affect veterans' resilience to reduce post-concussion and post-traumatic symptoms. However, today there are a few of them and they have insufficient evidence base for effectiveness in improving the mental state of veterans. This article presents a protocol and results of empirical evaluation of methodology of research aimed at improving the effectiveness of rehabilitation of war veterans with traumatic brain injury in remote period, based on the study of resilience cognitive and emotional components and its recovery by improving the complex of psychocorrection and prognosis.

We plan to conduct the study on 2019-2023 with participation a total of 140 demobilized combatants in the ATO/OUF zone. For psychological assessment we plan to use the scale of neurobehavioral symptoms, the posttraumatic stress disorder checklist 5, hospital anxiety and depression scale, Montreal cognitive assessment scale, Chaban quality of life scale, Connor-Davidson resilience scale. To study the variability of dependent variables under the influence of psychocorrection, we plan to use analysis of variance. To study the prognostic value of changes in the cognitive and emotional components of resilience during the process of rehabilitation we plan to use a regression analysis.

Based on the results of an empirical assessment, the selected methods make it possible to obtain a detailed characteristic of the resilience of war veterans with traumatic brain injury in remote period, to evaluate the effectiveness of the psychocorrection program and the prognostic value of changes in the cognitive and emotional components of resilience. Taking into account the methodology empirical assessment results, it can be expected that the main group and the comparison group socio-demographic and clinical indicators will be equivalent to each other, which will make it possible to assert their homogeneity and use for comparison. Methods of statistical processing of the data obtained correspond to the nature of the statistical data, make it possible to systematize the data, establish the degree of reliability and confirm the results obtained.