Abstract
Background
Resilience has been studied as an effective concept in nursing that acts as a protective factor which aids in overcoming difficult situations and related mental problems. With the recent increase in demand for nursing homes, nursing home nursing staff are facing a variety of stresses and psychological burdens. Improving resilience has been suggested as one way to deal with the difficulties, such as stress, exhaustion, and burnout, that nursing home nursing staff are experiencing. In order to provide successful education aimed at improving such resilience, it is very important to understand how to perceive experience from the learner’s point of view.

Aim
The study’s aim is to identify the ways that nursing home nursing staff build resilience.

Method
This study used phenomenography, a methodology for exploring the relationship between subject and phenomenon. From January 15, 2022 to February 20, 2022, data collection was undertaken at three nursing homes located in the Republic of Korea. The data was collected through semi-structured interviews with 20 nursing staff members in NHs and a data analysis that strictly followed the 7-step analysis process of phenomenography.

Results
Eight categories were derived. The eight categories were then divided into two groups of four representing perception and strategy. Perception included four categories: ‘grasping the situation’, ‘thinking about one’s responsibility for the resident and personal values’, ‘considering one’s strength’ and ‘thinking of an improved self’. Strategy included four categories: ‘evaluation of oneself and one’s environment’, ‘taking care of oneself’, ‘finding concrete ways to manage the problem’ and ‘self-development for growth’. Perception had three levels of awareness, valuing and assuring, while strategy had three levels of identifying, introspecting and concretizing.

Conclusion
This study provides insight into how individual nursing staff build resilience, a complex and subjective concept. It provides a foundation for future resilience education of nursing home nursing staff and suggests future educational intervention development directions.
