Post‐traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a serious psychological condition induced by experiencing traumatic events. Interestingly, PTSD can be acquired not only from directly experiencing traumatic events but also from witnessing such events. Treatment and prevention strategies are limited. Animal studies have provided critical insights. Recently, we published a “Trauma Witness Model” (TWM) of rat and reported that witnessing traumatic events cause PTSD‐like behaviors including anxiety‐ and depression‐like behavior as well as learning‐memory deficits. TWM is a modified social defeat paradigm, which involves aggressive encounters between a large Long‐Evans male rat (resident) and a smaller Sprague‐Dawley male rat (intruder), resulting in intruder social defeat. The cage mate of the intruder designated as trauma witnessing rat (TW), is positioned to witness intruder defeat. Using this model, we examined beneficial role of moderate treadmill exercise in preventing TW‐induced behavioral impairments. Beneficial role of treadmill exercise has been reported in other models of stress. Male Sprague Dawley rats were allocated to five different groups: control (C), social defeat (SD), exercise (Ex), trauma witness (TW), and trauma witness with exercise (TWEx). The two exercised groups, Ex and TWEx, were subjected to a daily 30‐minute treadmill exercise regimen for 14 days. On day 15, the SD group was exposed to 7 days of direct trauma. The trauma witness groups, TW and TWEx, were strategically placed around the cage to witness the SD rats receive social defeat. On day 22, all groups were subjected to behavioral and cognitive tests including short‐term (STM) and long‐term (LTM) memory function, anxiety and depression‐like behaviors. TW and SD had the highest levels of anxiety and depression‐like behaviors compared to the other groups. In addition, TWEx had lower levels of anxiety and depression‐like behaviors compared to TW. STM and LTM remained unchanged. This study demonstrates that treadmill exercise provides resilience to trauma witness in a rodent model.Support or Funding InformationGrant Support: 2R15MH093918‐02