The study's goal is to investigate the relationship between obesity and resilience and how it affects people's ability to enjoy their lives. The sample of consisted of 400 participants incorporating both male and females (Male 200 Female 200). Age (15 to 30 years), gender, education (intermediate to higher education), marital status (single or married), and domicile were among the demographic factors that were examined in the study (Faisalabad). The Life Satisfaction Scale, the Brief Resilience Scale, and the participants' BMI were the instruments utilized to measure the study's variables. Following data collection, the data were examined using analysis of variance (ANOVA) for repeated measures and univariate data, as well as inferential statistics for analyzing interactions. The relation between variables and was also evaluated using the Pearson product moment correlations. Descriptive statistics were used to describe participants’ characteristics.  According to the study's findings, there is a stronger negative link between obesity and life satisfaction among both male and female students after data analysis. Additionally, there is a strong positive correlation between resilience and life satisfaction in both male and female students. Additionally, the study discovered a negative correlation between age and marital status and a positive significant link between age and BMI. The correlation study established a stronger link between married status and body mass index. Additionally, the investigation discovered a bad relationship between resilience and marital status. Though not very substantial, there is a favorable correlation between married status and life satisfaction. The relationship analysis established a more solid negative relationship between resilience and BMI.  Score as evidenced Following these discoveries, it was assumed that gender, body mass index (BMI), resilience, and life satisfaction had a significant relationship. Age, marital status, and gender are just a few of the statistical elements that have been found to have a significant influence on the level of resilience, life satisfaction, and BMI.