Purpose A new experimental resilient denture liner (MPDS‐SL; Lai Laboratories, Burnsville, MN) and Molloplast‐B (Buffalo Dental Manufacturing, Syosset, NY) were clinically evaluated for compliance and color change over a 1‐year period.Materials and Methods In this crossover study, each of 20 patients had 2 dentures fabricated with long‐term, silicone‐based resilient liners, 1 denture with Molloplast‐B and the other with MPDS‐SL. Each denture was used for 6 months, during which time each patient kept a journal detailing his or her use and cleaning regimen. The 2 materials were assessed for compliance and color at the beginning of the study and again after 3 months and 6 months of use. Compliance was determined by applying a 3‐lb force to the surface of the material following a square‐wave pattern, using a closed‐loop servohydraulic testing system. The force and position values were recorded using a storage oscilloscope. Compliance was measured at 3 locations on each denture and analyzed using data‐acquisition software. Images of the dentures were captured using a zoom stereomicroscope with a charge‐coupled video camera and image analysis software. The color was measured at 3 locations on each denture; RGB and L* a* b* were calculated.Results Compliance increased from baseline to 3 months and from 3 months to 6 months for almost all locations on both materials. Molloplast‐B and MPDS‐SL differed in average change in compliance at 6 months; the average change in compliance from baseline to 6 months was 453 (standard error, 46) for Molloplast‐B and 284 (standard error, 46) for MPDS‐SL (p= 0.019). For both materials, color changed significantly from baseline to 3 months and from baseline to 6 months (p <0.01). MPDS‐SL changed significantly less than Molloplast‐B from baseline to 6 months for R (p= 0.039), G (p= 0.037), B (p= 0.005), and L* (p= 0.042).Conclusion For both materials, compliance increased over 6 months of wear. The color change for MPDS‐SL was considerably less significant than that for Molloplast‐B.