PurposeThe COVID-19 pandemic has been a major stressor for adolescents. Given the unique implications of the pandemic for youth with type 1 diabetes (T1D), who already navigate multiple stressors as a function of their chronic condition, we aimed to describe the impact of the pandemic on adolescents with T1D and describe their coping strategies and resilience resources.Research MethodIn a 2-site (Seattle WA, Houston TX) clinical trial of a psychosocial intervention targeting stress/resilience, adolescents 13-18 years old with T1D ≥ 1 year and elevated diabetes distress were enrolled August 2020 – June 2021. Participants completed a baseline survey about the pandemic, including open-ended questions about the effects of the pandemic, what was helping them navigate, and how it impacted T1D management. Hemoglobin A1c (A1c) was extracted from clinical records. Free text responses were analyzed using an inductive content approach. Survey responses and A1c were summarized using descriptive statistics and associations were assessed by Chi-squared tests.ResultsAdolescents (n=122) were 56% female. 11% of adolescents reported diagnosis of COVID-19 and 12% had a family member/other important person die from COVID-19 complications. Adolescents described Social Relationships, Personal Health/Safety Practices, Mental Health, Family Relationships, and School to be primary areas affected by COVID-19. Helpful resources included: Learned Skills/Behaviors, Social Support/Community, and Meaning-Making/Faith. Among participants indicating that the pandemic had an impact on their T1D management (n=35), the most commonly described areas were: Food, Self-Care, Health/Safety, Diabetes Appointments, and Exercise. Compared to adolescents who reported minimal difficulty managing T1D during the pandemic (71%), those reporting moderate to extreme difficulty (29%) were more likely to have A1C ≥ 8% (80%  vs. 43%, p&lt;.01).ConclusionsResults underscore the pervasive impact of COVID-19 on teens with T1D across multiple major life domains. Their coping strategies aligned with stress, coping, and resilience theories and suggest resilient responses in the face of stress. Despite experiencing pandemic-related stressors in many areas, diabetes-related functioning was relatively protected for most teens, highlighting their diabetes-specific resilience. Discussing the pandemic impact on T1D management may be an important focus for clinicians, especially for adolescents with diabetes distress and above-target A1C.