The global refugee crisis, exacerbated by the Russian aggression in Ukraine, was caused by the unprecedented migration of millions fleeing wars, conflicts, and persecution. In this context, social psychologists are increasingly focusing on the role of mediated communication in promoting resilience among refugees. This article explores how mediated communication can foster resilience, drawing on social psychology theories and empirical research. We present an overview of the global refugee crisis and the challenges refugees face, including those affected by the ongoing war. The concept of resilience and its relevance to refugees is introduced, discussing the role of social support, coping strategies, and positive emotions in fostering this vital quality. We analysed the role of mediated communication and main characteristic, which can play important role for mental health problem prevention. Mediated communication, as a powerful tool to promote refugee resilience, is examined, highlighting its ability to provide access to social support networks, favour connection and belonging, and facilitate access to information and resources. Understanding the cultural and social contexts in which refugees use mediated communication, including issues of gender, age, and cultural norms, is essential for effective interventions. We concluded that interventions can address the unique challenges faced by refugees, such as displacement, war trauma, and social isolation, as well as the specific needs of Ukrainian refugees from different cultural and linguistic backgrounds. Potential challenges and limitations of mediated communication in promoting resilience among refugees, such as privacy and security issues, social isolation, and disinformation, are also discussed. Research perspectives are empirical verification of conceptual model of mediated communication potential for refugees’ resilience and develop the evidence based recommendation for future psychoeducation and mental health promotion interventions