Accessible SummaryWhat is known on the subject?Recurrence is common in patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder (MDD). Psychological resilience has been shown to be a protective factor against recurrence of depression. It has important clinical nursing significance to analyse the influencing factors of psychological resilience in major depressive disorder in remission (MDDR) patients.What the paper adds to existing knowledge?There are few previous studies on the influencing factors of psychological resilience in patients diagnosed with MDDR. We found the education levels, personal monthly income, social support, well‐being and self‐efficacy were influencing factors of psychological resilience in patients diagnosed with MDDR.What are the implications for practice?According to the factors affecting the psychological resilience of patients diagnosed with MDDR, targeted clinical nursing is helpful to prevent the recurrence of depression. Nurses should strengthen the nursing of patients with <12 years of education, and patients with personal monthly income less than 5000 RMB. In addition, nurses should cultivate patients' awareness of social support and identity, cultivate their ability to strive for social support, cultivate interpersonal skills and positive emotional experience to improve subjective well‐being and carry out self‐efficacy training to improve psychological resilience by enhancing patients' internal protective factors.AbstractAimPsychological resilience is closely related to recurrence of depression. There are few previous studies on the influencing factors of psychological resilience in patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder in remission (MDDR). Here, we investigated the current status of resilience in patients diagnosed with MDDR and its influencing factors.MethodsA descriptive cross‐sectional study was conducted from June 2019 to April 2021. One hundred and forty‐two patients diagnosed with MDDR were recruited from the Department of Psychiatry and Psychology of the General Hospital of Northern Theater Command. Demographic information, social support, well‐being, self‐efficacy and psychological resilience were collected using self‐reported questionnaires.ResultsThe psychological resilience of MDDR patients was lower than that of the healthy Chinese adults in China. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that education, personal monthly income, social support, well‐being and self‐efficacy were associated with psychological resilience. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis further confirmed that social support, well‐being and self‐efficacy were associated with psychological resilience.ConclusionThe psychological resilience of MDDR patients was lower than that of the general population in China. The education levels, personal monthly income, social support, well‐being and self‐efficacy were influencing factors of psychological resilience.Implications for PracticeAccording to the factors affecting the psychological resilience of patients diagnosed with MDDR, targeted clinical nursing is helpful to prevent the recurrence of depression.