Objective: This study aims to investigate networking as a social capital of small business actors in Pangandaran to gain resilience after the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
Theoretical Framework: Data from Bank Indonesia shows that the Covid-19 pandemic has affected 87.5% of Indonesian MSMEs. MSMEs should make new strategies to survive. Difficult situations due to the COVID-19 pandemic are experienced by long-time entrepreneurs and new entrepreneurs who have just started their businesses. Therefore, an entrepreneur needs resilience skills to overcome difficult situations due to COVID-19, one of which is utilizing networks as social capital.
 
Method: This study employed a qualitative approach with a case study design. Data were collected using interview and questionnaire techniques. The key informants of this study were eight MSME business actors and 60 respondents to measure their resilience levels.
 
Results: This study has discovered that most MSMEs in Pangandaran consider collaboration and networking essential to their entrepreneurial ecosystem. Collaboration facilitates resource exchange, risk dissemination, and access to a broader market, while networking enables MSMEs to gain information, moral support, and new business opportunities. Obstacles in building collaboration, such as distrust and imbalance of benefits, become barriers for MSMEs. However, digital technology emerges as a potential solution, facilitating communication and interaction between MSMEs.
 
Conclusion: Strengthening collaboration and networking in the entrepreneurial ecosystem is essential so that MSMEs in Pangandaran can have resilience in the post-pandemic era.
 
Originality/Value: The unique value of this study lies in its investigation of the role of collaboration and networking as a social capital tool for MSMEs, specifically focusing on the Pangandaran region, in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. This study also highlights the challenges MSMEs face in collaboration and how digital technology can offer a potential solution.