Management effectiveness influences the overall performance of an organization. This may be shown by achieving organizational goals and employee satisfaction even when change occurs. Organizational changes may involve changes in an organization’s structure and strategy that may be planned in advance or may be implemented because of a sudden shift in the environment. Alongside dealing with these distractions, change management helps an organization to implement strategies for inducing change, controlling change, and helping employees to adapt to change.  The organization understudy is the Department of Trade and Industry Laguna Provincial Office (DTI Laguna). This study describes organizational resilience and change management as inputs to management effectiveness. More specifically, it determines the assessment in organizational resilience in terms of capital resilience, strategic resilience, cultural resilience, relationship resilience, and learning resilience and the assessment in change management in terms of project management and corporate culture. Likewise, it determines if there is a significant relationship between assessment in organizational resilience and change management. Moreover, it proposes an action plan based on significant findings as inputs to management effectiveness. The study uses a quantitative method of research to gather information on organizational resilience and change management. The entire population of the organization understudy is small; thus, the participants of the study are all 62 employees of DTI Laguna, including the management and support staff. The data gathering instrument is divided into three major parts (profile of the respondents, a questionnaire on organizational resilience using a 4-point Likert scale, and a questionnaire on change management using a 4-point Likert scale) and is tested for reliability using Cronbach’s alpha. An online survey tool (Google Forms) is used to gather the information.  The results are analyzed by a trained statistician using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences tool for frequency distribution and percentages, weighted mean, and ANOVA.  Based from the results, the employees agree on the assessment in organizational resilience in terms of capital resilience, strategic resilience, cultural resilience, and learning resilience. Employees strongly agree on the assessment in organizational resilience in terms of relationship resilience. There is a significant difference between assessment in organizational resilience in terms of strategic resilience, cultural resilience, relationship resilience, and learning resilience when grouped to length of service. There is a significant difference between assessment in organizational resilience in terms of capital resilience, strategic resilience, cultural resilience, and learning resilience when grouped to monthly income. Moreover, based from the results, employees agree on the assessment in change management in terms of project management and corporate culture. Corporate culture was ranked first. There is a significant difference between assessment in change management in terms of project management and corporate culture when grouped to length of service and monthly income. There is a significant relationship between assessment in organizational resilience in terms of capital resilience, strategic resilience, cultural resilience, relationship resilience, and learning resilience and assessment in change management in terms of project management and corporate culture.  The researcher recommends that the Office of the Provincial Director may want to increase connections with employees by devising online bulletin boards wherein employees’ thoughts (pulse survey perhaps) may be posted. Also, they may want to organize an in-house “mentor me” program wherein an open communication may be facilitated between the management and the employees. The quality management team may want to revisit the implementation of monthly staff meeting and quarterly management reviews to maintain management effectiveness. The Administrative and Finance Management Unit may want to further improve the level of trust of employees to the management by devising an online shared portal of status of funds that is to be updated from time to time.  Future researchers may do a similar study or may use other variables not included in this study. More so, they may want to compare two or more government agencies to know if they will come up with the same results.