This study confirms that resilience is embodied by the pragmatic function ‘ego expansion' revealed in the poems of the above three poets. The poems in which the ‘ego expansion' that is the foundation of resilience emerged revealed the process of meaning generation in a new light. The formation of the relationship between the medium and the goal by the pragmatic function ‘ego expansion' contained in each text is illustrated by the meaning-generating process of resilience. The difference of the ego expansion from general growth is in relationality. Cognitive structures have emerged in which the medium and the goal by the connectivist spread resilience through the principle of sameness. Mental space, which is the operating element of ego expansion, was typed into ‘time spaces', ‘space spaces', ‘domain spaces', ‘hypothetical spaces', etc, to form a semantic space. In the poem of Yun Dongju, the resilience caused by the ego expansion into the multi-ego of ego is revealed as a type of mental space of ‘domain spaces', ‘hypothetical spaces' and ‘time spaces'. In particular, the cognitive background of time spaces was generally implied, and cognitive settings that ruminate on the ego in time spaces were dominant. The ego expansion is revealed in the superego and the split ego, and the ego expansion into the split ego is highlighted. The resilience, the orientation of the superego to overcome the agony of ego that pursues the ideal goal to overcome the difficulty of the reality and the internal and external hardship is expressed was watched. Even in the trial product that calls the past ego and forms the split ego, the will of resilience of possitive future was expressed. In the poem of Han Yongun, the transitional ego expansion into the subject’s object was represented by ‘hypothetical spaces’, and the type of mental space of ‘space spaces’ was revealed dominant and evidently so the resilience of transitional aspect into the object of the subject was clearly highlighted. The will to overcome the absolute pursuit of cognitive object and the cognitive distance with the cognitive object was expressed in the subject and objective ideology by conectivist’s ego expansion of pragmatic function. The cognitive attitude to identify the subject and the object was reinforced through the transitional ego expansion into the object of the subject. The orientation into the identity of the subject and the object appeared in the text was firm, and the resilience of ego expansion by the mental action seen as the cognitive action principle was expressed. In the poem of Baek Seok, the ‘time spaces’ was lied in the text in the cognitive situation setting where the exclusive ego expansion into the community of the object is occurred, specially the ‘domain spaces’ was evidently revealed. That is because the multi-layer time spaces cognitively forms several activity areas of our life. On the other hand, it was possible to identify even the type of ‘space spaces’, and it shows the space that has no spatial limit of community. In the text, such symbols as the holidays, residential space, lifetool, agriculture, food, solar term, daily life were used to represent the resilience of family community and local community. In the part focused by community consiciousness that is originated from the natural object and object, the poetic setting that recognizes the community consciousness where the time spaces is expanded was focused. The generation of positivity and happiness that attract the resilience appeared in the text was seen as the community dimension rather than the personal dimension.