Background: Numerous enterprises face great challenges during uncertain economic conditions. This is particularly true for micro, small, and medium-scale companies, which are slumped against disruption from the COVID-19 pandemic—owing to lockdowns, decreased demand, and a disrupted supply chain. This has impacted the economy worldwide but also the social community and the environment that forms its ecosystem. Organizational resilience allows for socio-economic growth and enterprises to build environmental sustainability and balanced community development. Therefore, the behavior of companies must be transformed in building entrepreneurship to encourage socio-economic growth. Methods: We conducted an advanced search on Business Source Premier, ABI/INFORM (ProQuest), Emerald Insight, and Web of Science database between March and June 2022. We screened the bibliographies of the articles from the database search using a set of inclusion criteria such as studies with quantitative design with unit analysis population sample based microfinance institutions and cooperative-based microfinance institutions, MSEs, and MSMEs as well as other industries such as travel agents, property, restaurants, food and beverages, manufacturing and plantations; exploration of transformational entrepreneurship behavior and organizational resilience determinant factors and conceptual manuscripts written in English; and published between 2005 till 2019 for transformational entrepreneurship and 1997 till 2000 for organizational resilience.   Results: This study reviewed 22 articles focusing on the role and influence of organizational resilience on transformational entrepreneurship behavior from a lens that posits the importance of organizational resilience in the face of uncertain economic turbulence. The orientation of entrepreneurship behavior has been neglected in research so far. This systematic literature review study reveals important research gaps, such as the influence of organizational resilience in promoting the development of transformational entrepreneurship behavior and the determinants that build organizational resilience. Conclusions: Research related to a company’s transformational entrepreneurship behavior offers a broad area of ​​scientific research; hence, encouraging further investigation is necessary.