The article addresses the concept of resilience, which has been extensively developed in recent decades both in the scientific and public discourse of the European Union and in its practical application. It was concluded that this was caused by threats and challenges such as the financial and economic crisis of 2008-2009, climate change, the increase in numerous natural disasters, the pandemic od coronavirus COVID-19, which has demonstrated the EU’s growing vulnerability. Understanding of resilience by the European Union reflected in European Commission documents has been revealed. The main directions of implementation the concept of sustainability into European Union policies have been analyzed, including: foreign and domestic policies, financial and economic sustainability, assistance to countries vulnerable to various shocks, combating climate change. It has been found that the EU recognizes that the challenge of COVID-19 cannot be prevented, and therefore it seeks to increase the resilience not only of the entire Union, but also of member states. It has been suggested that building resilience is gradually becoming a new way to ad ance the European Union’s value agenda, both in the European Community and in the international arena. European resilience discourse has been analyzed. The main trends of its development before and after the start of the COVID-19 pandemic have been demonstrated. It is noted that the spread of coronavirus has had a significant impact on public debate in the EU. In particular, there has been a shift in focus and emphasis on the internal transformations induced by the pandemic and the increasing resilience of health systems, as well as on such actual threats as misinformation and cyberterrorism. It has been established that an important issue that remains open is the identification of the most effective resources that will contribute to better addressing and building resilience to existing and new challenges (coronavirus, climate change) as well as new one.