Understanding how survivors of complex trauma navigate towards resources can inform the design of interventions and health promotion strategies. However, there are little data on the resilience and help‐seeking experiences of this group or others who have experienced institutional abuse in childhood. This empirical study sets out to illustrate the help‐seeking experiences of Irish emigrant survivors of institutional childhood abuse (ICA). Twenty‐two survivors of ICA were purposefully recruited from community organisations in the UK and data were collected via semi‐structured interviews. As a result of negative initial help‐seeking experiences in Ireland, most participants engaged in long periods of self‐management and disclosed information about their childhood as part of a redress scheme in later life. Outside of this scheme, turning points, such as illness or family problems, and the needs of children were influential in seeking help. Peer support networks played an important role as a trusted signposting pathway towards formal interventions. Participants identified interpersonal barriers to formal help‐seeking as helping professionals' failure to share control, insensitivity to identity loss and literacy issues, and the lack of explicit boundaries. The paper concludes with a discussion about the implications for research and future practice.‘This empirical study sets out to illustrate the help‐seeking experiences of Irish emigrant survivors of institutional childhood abuse’Key Practitioner Messages:

Turning points, such as illness and bereavement, and the desire to provide for children, influence the help‐seeking of survivors of ICA.
Irish emigrant survivors of ICA cite failure to share control, insensitivity to identity loss, literacy issues and the lack of explicit boundaries as barriers to help‐seeking.
General awareness of ICA can help practitioners in low‐threshold services prevent against culturally insensitive practice.
Peer support networks can provide uniquely trusted signposting towards formal interventions.
