AbstractIn light of the recent pressure from global warming, extreme drought events, and deleterious human activity, the strength and long‐term change trends of vegetation in karst regions—in terms of their resistance to external disturbances—have not been studied systematically. Therefore, herein, we quantified the vegetation resilience and its nonlinear change trends in south China karst under different environmental gradients by measuring the lag‐1 autocorrelation to time‐series Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (1990–2018), clarifying the driving forces of vegetation resilience changes. It was shown that the vegetation resilience change in south China karst was not monotonous. In the first stage (pre‐2002), precipitation and warming promoted the increase of regional vegetation resilience (slope = −0.045, p < 0.0001). In the second stage (during 2002–2010), the increasing trend of vegetation resilience was not obvious and vegetation resilience was difficult to keep up with vegetation productivity, indicating the time‐lagged effect of ecological restoration projects to vegetation resilience. In the third stage (post‐2010), due to the continuous advancement of ecological restoration projects, vegetation resilience increased significantly and had the largest amplitude (slope = −0.128, p < 0.0001). Simultaneously, under different environmental gradients, vegetation resilience showed significant differentiation characteristics. In comparison to non‐karst regions, increases in the vegetation resilience were more obvious in karst regions especially in the post‐2010. With increases in the soil depth, the vegetation resilience exhibited an increasing trend, indicating its dependence on soil. At slopes >25°, the vegetation resilience increased most obviously and the resilience of meadows was the largest, which can be the preferred vegetation type for ecological restoration projects. This research provides another perspective to understand karst vegetation ecosystem and the results will facilitate the protection of karst ecosystems.