 e24087  Background: Patients with advanced cancer and their caregivers experience a substantial amount of distress. Limited research suggests that mindfulness-based interventions may improve quality of life and reduce anxiety. The virtually delivered Resilient Living program consisted of online modules, a print journal, and a total of 4 virtual training sessions focused on techniques for managing stress and building resilience (mindful presence, uplifting emotions, reframing experiences through principles of gratitude, compassion, acceptance, meaning, and forgiveness). The current pilot study was performed to assess the feasibility of the virtual Resilient Living Program for patients with advanced cancer and their caregivers, as well as preliminary effects on anxiety and related outcomes. Methods: Eligible patients included those age ≥18 years with a diagnosis of advanced cancer with expected prognosis > 6 months. Feasibility was defined as consent of at least 25% of eligible patients and their caregivers. Adherence was defined as 75% of the enrolled participants completing at least 3 of the 4 Resilient Living sessions. The primary outcome measure was anxiety as measured by the GAD-7; others included stress (PSS), quality of life (LASA), sleep (ISI), resiliency (Resiliency Scale), and fatigue (PROMIS-Fatigue SF). Results: Seventy-two eligible patients were referred to the study, of these 33 patients enrolled (46% enrollment), 15 also had a caregiver enroll. Thirty participants completed at least 3 virtual sessions (63% adherence). Data was collected at baseline, week 5 (after 2 session), week 9 (after 4 sessions), and week 12 (1 month after completion) for patients and caregivers. There were statistically significant improvements in anxiety at weeks 5, 9 and 12 (i.e., p < 0.05). Other results are outlined in the table. Conclusions: Virtual participation in the Resilient Living Program is feasible and acceptable for patients with advanced cancer and their caregivers. Data from this pilot study suggest that the program may positivity impact anxiety, stress, sleep, quality of life and resiliency. A larger randomized prospective clinical trial is warranted to confirm these preliminary findings. Clinical trial information: NCT04480008. [Table: see text] 