Introduction. The full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation on February 24, 2022 has changed the history of Ukraine and the life of every Ukrainian. Millions of people, saving their lives, were forced to move to safer places In Ukraine as well as other countries. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians went to defend their country from the invaders. A huge number of people found themselves in the occupation and suffered tortures, captivity, abuse, hunger, and terrible wanderings. It is obvious that the war and its consequences have radically changed the paradigm of psychological assistance and increased the role of a psychologist/psychotherapist, which makes the problem of psychologists/psychotherapists' mental health resilience extremely important. After all, the effectiveness of psychological help depends on psychologists/psychotherapists' psychological and emotional stability.  Aim. To formulate the first reflexive thoughts about the change in the paradigm of psychological and psychotherapeutic work in the context of war and the strategy of maintaining and developing psychologists and psychotherapists' resilience.  Results. The article analyzes the peculiarities of psychologists/psychotherapists' work in the conditions of the Russia's war against Ukraine, discusses some transformations in the paradigm of mental and psychotherapeutic help in a crisis situation, the most common symptoms and clients' requests over the past six months as well as the dynamics of clients' psychological and emotional states. The author also considers the changes in the therapeutic relationship between the psychologist/psychotherapist and the client as well as the strategy of maintaining and developing psychologists/psychotherapists' resilience and mental health needed to preserve their professional identity.  Conclusions. The information presented in the article can be useful in planning, organizing and providing psychological help as well as in developing and applying a psychologists/psychotherapists' resilience promotion psychotechnology.