ObjectiveDevelopment and testing of a comprehensive and social and culturally inclusive child-report measure of resilience factors supporting positive outcomes in the face of adversity.DesignThe measure is based on a socioecological model of resilience and was developed and revised using community-based participatory research methods with Aboriginal and refugee background communities. Pilot testing and validation of the child-report version (Child Resilience Questionnaire-Child report (CRQ- C)) is described in this paper.SettingAustralia.ParticipantsChildren aged 7–12 years from culturally and socially diverse backgrounds completed the CRQ- C in the pilot (n=387) and validation study (n=775). Families recruited via hospital clinics, Aboriginal and refugee background communities and nested follow-up of participants in an existing cohort study.AnalysisThe factor structure and construct validity of CRQ-C scales were assessed using exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses. Preliminary assessment of criterion validity was conducted usinghe Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ). Internal consistency of final scales was assessed using Cronbach’s alpha.ResultsConceptually developed CRQ-C was over inclusive of resilience factors and items. Exploratory factor analyses and confirmatory factor analyses supported 10 subscales reflecting personal resilience factors (positive self/future, managing emotions) and connectedness to family, school and culture. Excellent scale reliability (α=0.7–0.9) for all but one scale (Friends, α=0.6). Significant negative correlation between CRQ-C and SDQ total difficulty score supporting criterion validity (rs=−0.317, p<0.001).ConclusionThe CRQ-C is a new culturally and socially inclusive self-report measure of resilience factors in childhood, with demonstrated content, construct and scale reliability. Further testing of criterion validity required. Availability of child and parent report CRQ supports broad applications in clinical, research and intervention work. Socially inclusive and culturally appropriate tools are fundamental to create the evidence needed to assess and guide intervention efforts.