Aim: This study looked at the influence of kinship ties on the development of resilient behaviour among Nso adolescents of the Bamenda grassfields of Cameroon. Adolescence is a phase of development that involves many changes and challenges in different areas. Consequently, adolescents need tools for navigating tough times and building resilience. The Nso adolescents are not exempted from the challenges especially now with the ramification of the Cameroon’s Anglophone crisis in Nso, that has created significant risks for these adolescents like post-traumatic stress and internal displacement. The ability to adapt positively after such adversities and problems is becoming quite challenging nowadays for some Nso adolescents.
Methods: This study was carried out in the Nso Fondom in the Bamenda grassfields of Cameroon. The study employed a convergent parallel design using a sample of 374 adolescents and 25 parents who were conveniently selected for the study. A questionnaire was used for collection of quantitative data from Nso adolescents while interviews were used to collect qualitative data from parents of Nso adolescents. Data obtained was analysed descriptively using frequencies, percentages, mean, standard deviations and multiple responses set. For inferential statistics, linear regression analysis was used to verify the hypothesis at the 0.05 level of significance. Qualitative data was analysed using thematic analysis. 
Results: Findings showed that kinship ties significantly predicted the development of resilient behaviour, and accounted for 13.4% of its variance, R2 =.134, F (1,372) = 57.527, p< 0.01.
Conclusion: The study concluded that Nso adolescents facing adversities could benefit from resources in their local environment such as kinship ties.
Recommendations: The study recommend that parents, counsellors and leaders of Nso cultural development associations should socialise the adolescents in to sociocultural values of kinship ties by helping them to stay close to their extended family members such as grandparents, uncles and aunts, cousins and in-laws. As the support the adolescents receive from the extended family members, can counteract the effects of risk exposure and also buffer the negative effect of mental disorders.