Navigating the ever-changing difficulties in the educational world requires resilient leadership from school heads. This study employed a qualitative multiple case study, having three (3) distinct cases aimed to explore the perspectives of the school heads on resilient leadership in integrated schools of Division of Davao del Norte and Division of Tagum City. There were three (3) participants and six (6) informants underwent in-depth interviews. Participants were chosen through a purposive sampling technique. Each data was analyzed through thematic analysis and cross-case analysis. Case 1’s unique characteristics were being open to diversity and collaboration, being a trusted character, and having a parental perspective. Participant experiences improved the literacy level of learners and empowered teachers toward career advancement. In times of challenges, the coping mechanism was being resourceful, ensuring a safe learning environment, and good conflict management skills. The policy recommendations were the integration of resilient leadership, adherence to the policies, and having a framework of resiliency.  Case 2’s unique characteristics were being open to diversity and collaboration and being an equipped and well-versed leader. Experiences were to improve the literacy level of learners and the teacher’s punctuality. The coping mechanisms were cultivating calmness and good conflict management skills. The policy recommendations were learning in action, adherence to the policies, and having a framework of resiliency. Further, Case 3’s unique characteristics were the following: good listener, trusted character, and a great provider. The experiences were the establishment of the SHS-STEM curriculum, the conversion of elementary to integrated schools, and collaboration and partnerships. The coping mechanisms were resourcefulness and good conflict management skills while the policy recommendations were innovation-driven and adherence to policies. Moreover, cross-case analysis shows each case about distinct characteristics and commonalities such as openness to diversity and trusted character. Each case has distinct experiences, the only common was having improved literacy level of learners. Their coping mechanism was good conflict management skills and being resourceful. Their policy recommendations were adherence to policies and having a framework for resiliency. This implies that resilient leadership in handling integrated schools was significant for the school heads in how they manage and lead the school despite the challenges and circumstances in their workplace. Teachers and learners benefit from the type of leadership styles that the school heads advocate. A sequential mixed method or other methodology may be employed and investigated in the future.