Abstract
The research focuses on Genetic Water-Energy-Food Nexus Design Research Scenarios for Miami’s Greater Islands. The Paris Agreement - 21st international Conference of Parties (COP 21) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) supports professional and municipal architecture and urban design practice emphasizing greenhouse gas reductions and carbon-neutral city planning and operations. In this respect, Miami benefits through multiple large-scale grants focusing on strategic solutions to combat and adapt to the effects of global warming, sea-level rise, flooding, hurricane impacts, and salt-water intrusion [1]. This paper presents research findings funded by a four-year transdisciplinary research project CRUNCH by EU agencies and the US-National Science Foundation in partnership with nineteen partners from six countries. It illuminates two transdisciplinary methods to produce bio-inspired infrastructural, architectural, and urban scale scenarios from 2018 to 2100. The silico-oriented research location is in Miami, proposing a trans-locational application envisaged in Berlin. The first method is based on parametric-algorithmic, generative design research workflows. The second utilizes synthetic biology through bio-scripting in collaboration with Autodesk. Both methods merge through the integration of cloud-based artificial intelligence and machine learning simulation engines. The research goals are to support international governments regarding sustainability master plans, and secondly, to raise and increase awareness towards urgent and societal relevant resilience topics for the future of human habitats. Scenario simulations are generated by the Florida International University (FIU) Miami research team at the Urban Living Lab (ULL), the GIS department, and two coastal cities in Miami Dade with low-lying areas. The ULL’s research sectors include green-blue infrastructures to combat sea-level rise, synthetic biology scripting, robotic urban farming, local food production and hydroponics, mixed renewable energy design. In addition, and carbon-neutral power generation with adaptive infrastructure projects that support the local and regional Food-Energy-Water Nexus.