Abstract
Background/Question/Methods
Within the disaster and conflict response communities, concern about lack of effectiveness of outside responses has led to a debate about the role of local people in developing the capacity to prepare for a crisis and to respond after calamity has struck. Pelling (2007) points out the potential for participatory disaster risk assessment to build local capacity and for generating knowledge that, along with more expert-driven data collection, is used to identify and reduce the risk of disaster. Similarly, Weinstein and Tidball (2007) and Tidball et al. (2008) present an alternative model for post-crisis intervention based on local assets, including ongoing attempts of communities to manage their natural resources. For example, these authors suggest that civic ecology (CE) practices, including community forestry, watershed enhancement, community agriculture and gardening, and other participatory environmental restoration initiatives that emerge from the actions of local residents (Tidball and Krasny 2007), should be examined and perhaps leveraged by outsiders for their ability to mitigate post-crisis situations. The question is, how might CE relate to citizen science in applications post-disaster or conflict?

Results/Conclusions
CE practices emerge through the actions of people wanting to manage a local resource, and integrate both learning through small-scale experimentation and observations (adaptive management) and collaborative or participatory processes (co-management). They can be considered as an emergent form of adaptive co-management (Ruitenbeek and Cartier 2001; Armitage, Plummer et al. 2009). The local knowledge of individuals who initiate the practices is critical, although often linkages are made with scientists from universities, government, and non-profit organizations, so multiple forms of knowledge are incorporated into the stewardship activities. This learning shortens feedback times between management actions, such as participatory approaches for planting trees, and seeing the impact of tree planting on local ecological and social systems. CE practices embody attributes that may foster resilience both prior to and post-crisis, including multiple forms of knowledge and governance, self-organization, adaptive learning, shorter feedbacks, and ecosystem services (Folke, S. Carpenter et al. 2002; Walker and Salt 2006). We demonstrate that similar to CE, citizen science could build capacity to mitigate disaster and conflict through shortening feedbacks and through making available multiple forms of knowledge and data collection. Further, given the need for asset-based and participatory interventions post-crisis, and the paucity of existing mechanisms that address this need (Weinstein and Tidball 2007), we examine citizen science and its potential to become part of a tool kit of participatory responses that engage citizens in meaningful activity post-conflict.
