The pronounced negative impact of the external environment on economic processes in the Russian economy actualizes the tasks of the identification of factors and conditions that would allow maintaining the sustainability of its development. The subject of this article is the problem of instability of the economic system functioning as a result of non-economic external influence. The aim of the paper is to study the possibility of preventing or reducing the negative impact of environmental factors on the stability of regional economies. The article analyses the factors determining the stability of the economy. These factors are assessed through the economic category “resilience of the economic system”. At the same time, the emphasis is placed on the potential of interregional industrial cooperation of various countries creating an autonomous (in the institutional aspect) economic system. The article substantiates that the resilience of the economy is determined not only by the degree of its competitiveness and adaptability, but also by control of market institutions providing industrial commodity exchange (for relatively large economies) and stability of access to market institutions (for small economies). The composition of the institutions providing industrial commodity exchange determines the fact that the autonomy of the economic system becomes possible only when a certain scale of domestic demand is reached (for this system). In this situation, the development of integration processes becomes relevant for the regions of the Russian Federation and a number of friendly states. The paper suggests a model of interregional industrial cooperation on the example of the potential of organization of mutually beneficial trade relations between economic entities in the regions of Southern Russia and Pridnestrovie. It is shown that the implementation of this model will significantly increase the level of resilience of the economies of interacting regions. It is concluded that it is advisable to develop the processes of industrial interregional cooperation not only internationally, but also at interregional level.