
Purpose
This study aims to explore the dynamics of resilience in tourism and hospitality enterprises by investigating the influence of internal and external contextual factors (i.e. adaptive performance and institutional orientation) on the relationship between entrepreneurs’ resilience and business continuity indicators (i.e. perception of career insecurity and business exit intention).


Design/methodology/approach
In the Covid-19 pandemic context, quantitative data were collected using self-administrated questionnaires from entrepreneurs (founders of small-sized restaurants and travel agents in Egypt) using structural equation modeling.


Findings
The study reveals that entrepreneurs’ resilience under adversities directly correlates with business continuity indicators, with adaptive performance and institutional orientation functioning as mediators.


Research limitations/implications
The socio-demographic characteristics of entrepreneurs could be further investigated to observe the differences based on age, education and region. The type of business (i.e. restaurants and travel agents) could have an impact on the examined relationships. Therefore, further studies can use multi-group analysis to examine such differences between various sub-sectors of the hospitality business. Finally, the cross-sectional sample method used in this study is another limitation. In any study in which causality is inferred, longitudinal research confirms stronger inferences (Morgan & Hunt, 1994).


Practical implications
An instant implication is that entrepreneurs can take proactive actions to enhance their resilience. Entrepreneurs should seek to influence their own skills and abilities through various educational and training programs. For example, they can take advantage of business seminars, workshops and executive education courses. Entrepreneurs who have the chance of enhancing their skills in solving complex problems, identifying their strengths, managing their emotions are better able to adapt to unfavorable circumstances.


Social implications
The inhabited environment. Entrepreneurs should be institutionally oriented by building strong communications and networks with key actors and business-to-business customers. This would help entrepreneurs to understand the rules of the game, adapt to the environment, gain market legitimacy and accordingly acquire the social and financial support when hazards occur.


Originality/value
The extant literature lacks evidence about the internal and external contextual factors underlying the process of resilience in small and medium-sized enterprises and its outcomes. Research on entrepreneurship has rarely discussed the antecedents of business withdrawal. This study contributes to addressing this research gap.
