Topicality. The instability of the external environment is becoming a permanent condition for the functioning of commodity market systems, to which it is necessary to quickly adapt. Ensuring the reproduction development of systems of vertically adjacent commodity markets requires the acquisition of a certain stability (resilience) by the market system, which makes it necessary to study the essence of this category in the market dimension. In the war and post-war period, studies of the stability of commodity markets in the context of national security become especially relevant.Aim and tasks. The purpose of the article is to substantiate the theoretical foundations of the resilience of commodity market systems based on a reproducible approach in conditions of instability. The following methods were used during the research: dialectical, theoretical generalization and comparison, structural-logical method.Research results. Based on the content analysis of the "economic stability" category, it was established that in peacetime the essence of stability was determined by the preservation and improvement of the parameters of the economic system, while in the wartime the key component is their restoration, that is, resilience. The connection and mutual influence of the stability of functioning on the stability of the development of systems of adjacent markets is substantiated, the author's definition of the category "stability of reproduction development" is given. The essence of the basic principles of regulating the resilience of commodity market systems is defined: preventiveness, alternativeness and priority of the economic interests of the state. The relationship and mutual influence of the resilience of commodity markets, as a component of the national resilience system, on national security is substantiated.Conclusion. The scientific novelty of the conducted research consists in the development of the theoretical foundations of the resilience of commodity market systems based on a reproduction approach by transforming the theoretical provisions of economic stability in the market dimension, taking into account the conditions of the wartime period. The theoretical foundations of market resilience developed in the article form a scientific basis for the justification of adaptive mechanisms for regulating the stability of functioning and development of commodity market systems, which can be implemented by state authorities at different levels of management.