AbstractBackgroundA dementia diagnosis can lead to a decline in cognitive, social, and physical health, but people with dementia can live meaningful lives and participate actively in society with psychosocial support [1‐3]. This pilot study explored the feasibility and acceptability of a comprehensive resilience‐building psychosocial intervention (CREST) for people with memory problems/dementia (PWMPD), their caregivers, GPs, and the public.MethodNine PWMPD and their primary caregivers living in the community (N=9 pairs) completed the CREST intervention. The three components (cognitive stimulation therapy [CST], physical exercise, and dementia education) were delivered in five programmes. The PWMPD attended a 7‐week CST programme and an 8‐week exercise programme. The caregivers attended a 6‐week educational programme. Dementia education programmes were held for the community and local GPs. Quantitative secondary outcomes for participants were assessed at baseline and following the 15‐week intervention; qualitative interviews were conducted during and post‐intervention. All study components were assessed to determine the feasibility of conducting a future definitive trial.ResultHigh attendance and adherence to content were maintained for each component. The PWMPD and caregivers enjoyed each component of the CREST intervention, with only minor changes being recommended. The PWMPD enjoyed the CST and Exercise components; they felt their concentration and fitness had improved over the 15‐week intervention and particularly enjoyed the social aspects (e.g., group classes, exercising with partners from the community). Secondary elements of the Exercise component (home diaries and Fitbit use) were not feasible. Caregivers felt that they had better knowledge and understanding following their education component and reported that the social aspects (interacting and sharing experiences with each other) were important elements. The quantitative measures were confirmed feasible by participant feedback and data analysis, and health economic tools were confirmed feasible by preliminary health economic analysis. Recruitment posed significant delays to the onset and conduct of the CREST intervention.ConclusionThe CREST intervention was acceptable to the participants and each component was considered feasible. However, significant difficulties with recruitment impacted the viability of delivering the intervention in the community and further work is needed identify barriers to the recruitment of PWMPD before a full‐scale or RCT can be conducted.