Abstract
Background
Bereavement is a common traumatic event associated with adverse health outcomes across the life course. Despite these risks, not all bereaved individuals experience these negative effects. Limited scientific consensus exists on how to define resilience in individuals who have experienced the death of a loved one.

Methods
Using a sample of N = 3766 youth from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children birth cohort, we identified bereavement of a family member between ages 7 and 8.5. We derived and compared three different approaches to assess resilience among bereaved youth. Trajectory-based psychological resilience identified sub-groups with similar psychological symptom profiles between ages 6 and 16 using latent growth mixture models. Relative psychological resilience at age 16 leveraged standardized residuals from a model regressing psychological symptoms on bereavement to determine better-than-expected psychological functioning relative to bereavement status. Relative cross-domain resilience around age 16 was a sum score of the residuals approach applied to eight unique domains of health. Predictive validity of each approach was assessed using depressive symptoms at age 17.5

Results
Overall, N = 877 (23%) youth were bereaved of a family member between ages 7 and 8.5. Using latent growth mixture models, a three-class solution described 84% of bereaved youth with low and stable psychological symptoms over time, 8% with worsening symptoms, and 8% with improving yet elevated symptoms. Each relative resilience score was largely concordant with the trajectory-based approach in identifying individuals as resilient or not, though relative psychological resilience demonstrated a stronger degree of concordance than the cross-domain score. Relative psychological and cross-domain resilience exhibited moderate to low correlation, depending on the domains included (r = 0.14–0.43). For each approach, resilience significantly predicted lower depressive symptoms at age 17.5, highlighting predictive validity of these measures.

Conclusions
Psychological symptom trajectories among bereaved youth aligned with those previously identified among bereaved adults. The residual-based approach to defining resilience exhibited limited utility in the context of bereavement. When identifying risk and resilience after bereavement, researchers and clinicians must address the interplay across psychosocial and physical health domains, as bereaved youth considered resilient from a mental health perspective may benefit from intervention in other domains.
