Abstract
Objective
Chronic patients are experiencing depression caused by themselves or the surrounding environment, how to cope with the change of mentality and adjust the psychological stress response, especially under the background of the current dynamic Zero-COVID policy in China, is a problem worth further discussion. The researchers constructed a mediating regulation model to test the influence of psychological resilience on depression of chronic patients during dynamic Zero-COVID, as well as the mediating role of stigma and the moderating role of sleep.

Method
From October 2021 to February 2022, this study used a multi-stage sampling method and random number table method to collect data in the Shang Cheng District of Hangzhou City, Zhejiang Province. Firstly, the Second Affiliated Hospital of the Zhejiang University School of Medicine, a third-class hospital was randomly selected from the Shang Cheng District. Secondly, three departments were strategically selected from this hospital: endocrinology, dermatology, and traditional Chinese medicine. Thirdly, survey points were set up in each department, and chronic patients were strategically selected for questionnaire surveys. Finally, a face-to-face survey was conducted on 398 chronic patients who met the criteria for inclusion. In addition, chronic medical illness burden was assessed using the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale-Geriatrics (CIRS-G), psychological resilience was measured by the Conner-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC), stigma was measured by the Stigma Scale for Chronic Illness (SSCI), sleep was measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index(PSQI) and depression was estimated by the Patient Health Questionaire-9(PHQ-9). SPSS (version 25.0) and PROCESS (version 4.0) were used for correlation analysis, mediation analysis, and mediated moderation analysis.

Results
Psychological resilience was negatively correlated with depression, stigma, and sleep. Depression was positively correlated with stigma and sleep. Stigma and sleep were positively correlated; Stigma played a mediating role in the relationship between psychological resilience and depression; Sleep moderated the first half of the pathway “psychological resilience $$\to$$ stigma $$\to$$ depression”.

Conclusion
Psychological resilience affected depression directly and indirectly through stigma. At the same time, sleep played a moderating role between psychological resilience and depression. The correlation between psychological resilience and stigma was stronger when levels of sleep levels were higher.
