The purpose of this study is to evaluate the function of home gardens in strengthening the resilience of the social-ecological landscape system in Lefke City of the Northern Cyprus through a set of cross-scale interactions. In doing so, the objectives of the study were (i) to design a conceptual framework that links the resilience of the home garden and landscape systems through a range of cross-scale interactions, (ii) to identify the major cross-scale resilience assessment indicators at the home garden (site) scale, and (iii) to quantify the resilience of the home garden system and to evaluate its inter-linkages with the resilience of the landscape system. The method of the study consisted of three parts. Firstly, a conceptual framework, which depicts the relationship between the resilience of the home garden and landscape systems through a set of cross-scale interactions, was designed by reviewing the relevant literatures. Secondly, appropriated cross-scale resilience assessment indicators at the home garden scale were identified through an in-depth literature review. Thirdly, the relevant data on the indentified indicators were collected by employing a social preference approach and then evaluated by performing the Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS). A social preference approach was adopted to collect the relevant data. Within this context, a questionnaire form was designed to explore stakeholders’ perceptions regarding the objectives of the study. The interviewers expressed their perceptions on a 0-5 Likert Scale. Assessment of the results revealed that plant diversity and spatial connectivity are the key cross-scale principles to link the ecological resilience of the home garden with landscape systems. The social resilience of the both systems is interlinked with five principles (maintenance of food production, income diversification, demographics, cultural heritage, and traditional knowledge). The average relative value of the ecological and social resilience of the home garden system was estimated to be medium with a 3,15 points and low with a 2,16 points respectively. The total average relative value of the resilience of the home garden system was estimated to be low with a 2,41 points. Several drivers (e.g. intensive urbanization and landscape fragmentation) have been identified as the driving forces behind the decline of the resilience of the both systems. Understanding the interconnectedness between the resilience of different spatial units and scales may help policy-makers, planners, and land managers to design a mechanism that integrates the cross-scale interactions into planning and relevant strategies.