Background: The Covid-19 pandemic brought enormous changes and forced employees  working in healthcare as well as industrial setting to adapt their daily works. This study aims  to review the employee’s risks and resilience during covid-19 pandemic.  Method: We performed a systematic-review literature by searching published reports on risks  and resilience on employees during covid-19 pandemic. Systematic search was conducted on  Google Scholar using the following keywords: "employee resilience" AND “COVID-19” and  additional keywords "workers resilience" AND “COVID-19. Inclusion criteria comprised  original article, written in English, fulltext available, and published on 2020.  Result: During the Covid-19 pandemic, employees were at risks for increased workload and  work intensity, psychological changes in the form of ambivalence, emotional exhaustion,  distress, and job insecurity. Individual as well as organizational resilience are put under tested.  At the organizational level, company may adapt their corporate social responsibility (CSR) and  other development programs to response to societal challenges during covid-19 pandemic,  create flexible working hours or arrangements, develop intervention programs for mental and  physical health and well-being, provide financial supports, and creating a safe and supportive  work environment. At the individual level, resilience can be built by applying effective coping  strategies focusing on tasks, stress management, social, cognitive strategies, faith-based  learning activities, and promoting meaning-based coping strategies. This later strategy helps  employees search for meaning in their lives related to family, life goals, values and personal  strengths. The leaders’ caring and emotional intelligence greatly associated with employees’  resilience.  Conclusion: The COVID 19 pandemic put employees at risks for increased workloads,  emotional exhaustion, increased distress, and low levels of job security. However, pandemic  also brings opportunities for building resilience at the individual and organizational levels.  Company leaders play pivotal roles in endorsing programs for employee resilience.