 Engaging in behavior that enhances the socio-psychological relations at the workplace provides a competitive advantage to organizations. Drawing from the emerging positive organizational behavior studies, the present research was designed to analyze the relationship between self-efficacy and resilience to promote workplace well-being. The main aim of the study was to examine the moderating role of resilience between self-efficacy and workplace well-being. About 527 full-time executives from the Indian public and private manufacturing industries participated in the study. Common method variance of the measure was carried out through one-factor test ( Podsakoff et al., 2003 ) using confirmatory factor analysis to understand the bias in responding to our questionnaire. Finally, we carried out a hierarchical regression analysis to test the interacting effect of resilience between self-efficacy and workplace well-being. The result of the study indicates a positive relationship between self-efficacy and workplace well-being. The moderation effect of resilience was also confirmed in the structural equation modeling output through LISREL. Results revealed that executives having higher self-efficacy and resilience will demonstrate a positive attitude toward workplace well-being. Self-efficacy and resilience are malleable in nature and get enriched through observation and learning. This study stands as one of the first few empirical works in positive organizational behavior studies that have been carried out on executives of manufacturing organizations in India. Hence, the findings of the study cannot be generalized beyond manufacturing organizations. The data are collected through random sampling method, hence due care need to be taken while generalizing the result in a larger population, so future research may be carried out on a large sample in diverse organizations and locations to have an appropriate comparison by addressing the effectiveness of resilience on other behavior constructs. 