 e24079  Background: One of the most common concerns of cancer survivors is cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI), which affects an individual’s ability to return to work, school, or other life activities. The etiology of CRCI is poorly understood. Numerous studies have demonstrated a relationship between emotional distress and cognitive dysfunction, though the core psychological construct underlying this relationship has been elusive. Resilience, defined as the ability to function well despite adversity, reflects individual capacity to manage stress and reduce allostatic load. We hypothesized that low resilience contributes to stress-related cognitive symptoms in cancer survivors, and that improvement in resilience through the Relaxation Response Resiliency Program (3RP), a psychotherapy group that reduces emotional distress, would reduce cognitive symptoms in cancer survivors. Methods: Consistent with prior protocols, adult cancer survivors participated in the 3RP program, a 9-week resiliency mind-body group treatment led by psychologists and/or psychiatrists. Survivors completed measures of cognitive symptoms (Patient Reported Outcome Measure Information System – Cognitive function; PROMIS-Cog) and resilience (Current Experiences Scale; CES) before and after treatment. Pearson correlations evaluated relationships between resilience and cognition. Results: 46 cancer survivors (mean age = 57, 85% female, 94% White, 4% Asian, 2% Black) completed \ CES and PROMIS-Cog at therapy intake, with 41% of subjects reporting significant cognitive impairment at baseline (defined as scores of < 1.0 SD on PROMIS-Cog). There was a significant correlation between these two scales prior to treatment (r = 0.33; p = 0.025), indicating that subjects with lower resilience reported poorer cognition. Thus far, 13 survivors have completed the 8-week therapy program, with 46% of these patients reporting significant cognitive difficulties. The post-treatment correlation between resilience and cognition was nonsignificant (r = 0.19;p = ns). Treatment effects were operationalized by change scores (follow up – baseline) for CES and PROMIS-Cog. The relationship between CES and PROMIS-Cog change scores was positive but not significant with the small sample size (r = 0.35; p = 0.028). Conclusions: This preliminary study suggests that there is a relationship between resilience and cognition in cancer survivors. Improvements in resilience through the 3RP treatment may reduce cognitive symptoms, though further work is needed to determine the significance of this effect. 