In resilience-based frameworks, optimizing the repair strategy and approaches is important for the recovery of the function of gas network systems (GNS) and water network systems (WNS). According to the resilience quantification results of GNS and WNS for a real example urban city in China, the potential impact of utilizing different repair sequences and repair/replacement approaches was investigated. First, a Monte Carlo simulation-based method was proposed to search for the optimal repair sequence according to the skew of the recovery trajectory (SRT). Under high seismic intensity conditions, the significant difference between the repair sequence corresponding to maximum SRT and minimum SRT indicates that choosing the optimal repair sequence is important in the enhancement of repair efficiency, especially when the pipelines have experienced serious damage. We also discussed the parallel repair strategy, which is more consistent with the practice, and can greatly improve the recovery efficiency compared with the single pipeline repair strategy under large damage conditions; however, under minor damage levels, the parallel repair strategy may result in a certain degree of redundancy. Next, three different repair approaches were thoroughly compared, including the point-by-point repair approach, whole pipeline replacement, and hybrid repair approach. At the condition of high seismic intensity (e.g., macroseismic intensity IX), the resilience curves for the hybrid repair approach and the pipeline replacement approach are overall similar and take less time and economic cost than the point-by-point repair approach. However, when the seismic intensity is low, the point-by-point repair approach is most efficient and has the shortest recovery time. Therefore, the choice of repair approach should be determined by stakeholders based on the specific pipeline’s damage situation. Finally, we calculated the joint resilience curves by allocating different weight factors to GNS and WNS, to represent the proportion of water and gas supply that contributes to community resilience.