Introduction. Social tension in society has led to an increase in the number of students with mental health disorders. An urgent need to create psychological assistance services in the system of higher education has arisen. However, the directions and priorities of its functioning remain unclear. The psychological service in the system of higher education is actively developing. Psychological science should look for conditions for successful psychological support of the learning and development of students, their social and psychological adaptation. Materials and methods. 80 girls and 75 first-year boys studying in pedagogical specialties were included in the sample were included in the sample. The empirical study took place in March after 6 months of adaptation. Research methods: The methodology "Motivation for learning at a university" was proposed by T. I. Ilyina, the Method for diagnosing sociopsychological adaptation of Rogers - Diamond (adaptation by A. K. Osnitsky, 2004), the Method "Adaptation of students at a university" (T. D. Dubovitskaya, 2010), Questionnaire "The resilient of an adult" (A. V. Makhnach, 2013). Research results. Qualitative and quantitative analysis helped to distribute students into three groups with different levels of adaptation to the educational environment of the university. So, 20% of students are adapted at a high level; 65.16% - at the average level; 14.84% - at a low level. Every fourth student is resilient (25.81%). They have the potential to deal with difficult life situations, as well as for self-development and personal growth. Every sixth (18.06%) has low hardiness, and slightly more than half (56.13%) has moderate hardiness. A correlation study showed that the higher the resilience of students, the higher their adaptability, acceptance of themselves and others, emotional comfort, internality, motivation "acquisition of knowledge" (r = .363; p < 0.05; r = .358; p < 0 .05; r = .670; p < 0.01; r = .630; p < 0.01; r = .521; p < 0.01; r = .683; p < 0.01). Conclusion. The resilient of students is associated with the successful adaptation of students. Viable students are highly satisfied with the social position in the student group, the effectiveness of their educational activities; emotional comfort; acceptance of self and others; infernality and activity; the motive of obtaining knowledge. Purposeful psychological work to improve the resilient of students will contribute to their successful social and psychological adaptation