The paper summarised arguments and counterarguments on analysis of economic resilience. The bibliometric analysis on economic resilience using the software VOSviewer allowed identifying the four core scientific schools: R. Martin (University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom); A. Rose University of Southern California, Los Angeles, United States; C.S. Holling; H. Wolman (The George Washington University, Washington, D.C., United States); I. Briguglio (L-Università ta' Malta, Msida, Malta). The generalisation of the scientific papers and approaches on solving issues mentioned above proved that the core indicators of economic resilience assessment were macroeconomic stability; microeconomic market efficiency; good governance; social development. The paper aimed at the analysis of the marketing determinants impact on the economic vulnerability of the country. The hypothesis of the paper was no statistically significant difference in the level of economic vulnerability for countries that implement effective branding policies and do not take appropriate actions. The study checked hypothesis using the methods and instruments as follows: for the normal distribution of the statistical data – the Shapiro-Wilk test; verification of the equality of dispersion in the statistical data using the Levine’s test; parametric (One-way ANOVA: F-test) or non-parametric test (Kruskal-Wallis rank test). The object of the investigation was European Union countries which were classified on the six groups by the experts of the FutureBrand rating. The empirical data confirmed the hypothesis mentioned above. Thus, the findings proved no statistically significant difference between the leading indicators of the level of economic vulnerability according to the essential component – macroeconomic stability, which was estimated using indicators: General government deficit (-) and surplus (+) - annual data; unemployment rate. Keywords brand, government deficit, government surplus, unemployment rate, ANOVA