Abstract

Background
The objective of this study was to characterize frailty and resilience in people evaluated for Post-Acute COVID-19 Syndrome (PACS), in relation to quality of life (QoL) and Intrinsic Capacity (IC).


Methods
This cross-sectional, observational, study included consecutive people previously hospitalized for severe COVID-19 pneumonia attending Modena (Italy) PACS Clinic from July 2020 to April 2021. Four frailty-resilience phenotypes were built: “fit/resilient”, “fit/non-resilient”, “frail/resilient” and “frail/non-resilient”. Frailty and resilience were defined according to frailty phenotype and Connor Davidson resilience scale (CD-RISC-25) respectively. Study outcomes were: QoL assessed by means of Symptoms Short form health survey (SF-36) and health-related quality of life (EQ-5D-5L) and IC by means of a dedicated questionnaire. Their predictors including frailty-resilience phenotypes were explored in logistic regressions.


Results
232 patients were evaluated, median age was 58.0 years. PACS was diagnosed in 173 (74.6%) patients. Scarce resilience was documented in 114 (49.1%) and frailty in 72 (31.0%) individuals. Table 1 shows demographic, anthropometric and clinical characteristics, comorbidities and patient-reported outcomes according to four frailty-resilience phenotypes. With regards to study outcomes, Figure 1 depicts in radar graphs, mean scores of each domain of SF-36 (1A), EQ-5D5L (1B) and IC (1C). Figures shows polygon areas for each frailty/resilience phenotypes. Progressive increase of mean scores of each domain are plotted in the vertices of polygons, from the lowest (near the center) in frail and non-resilient, to highest (towards periphery) in fit and resilient. Multivariate logistic analyses were used to identify predictors of the total scores of SF-36 (Figure 2A), EQ-5D5L (Figure 2B) and IC (Figure 2C).


Conclusion
Resilience is complementary to frailty in the identification of clinical phenotypes with different impact on wellness and QoL. Frailty and resilience should be evaluated in hospitalized COVID-19 patients to identify vulnerable individuals to prioritize urgent health interventions in people with PACS.


Funding
This study is supported by a Gilead Sciences Inc. unrestricted grant.


Disclosures
All Authors: No reported disclosures.
