Objectives  This study examined the effect of Career Barrier and Career Stress on the Career Preparation Behavior of Female College Students on Mediation Effects of Career Resilience.
Methods  For these purposes, 380 female college students were selected as the subjects of this study to conduct a self-written online survey, and frequency analysis, technical statistical analysis, and correlation analysis were conducted to understand the general matters of the study. To verify that career barrier, career stress, career preparation behavior, and career resilience showed significant differences, an independent sample t-test and a One-way ANOVA were conducted, and Schefft’s post-test was conducted for variables showing significant differences. Hierarchical regression analysis was performed to verify the mediating effect of career resilience on the path in which career barriers and career stress affect career preparation behavior.
Results  The major results are as follows. First, it was found that career barriers of female college students had a significant negative (-) effect on career preparation behavior. Second, it was found that female college students career stress had a significant negative (-) effect on career preparation behavior. Third, it was found that career resilience played a partial mediating role in the relationship between career barriers and career preparation behavior of female college students. Fourth, it was found that career resilience played a partial mediating role in the relationship between career stress and career preparation behavior of female college students.
Conclusions  Furthermore, the Career Barrier and Career Stress extend to the related research by checking the mediated effects of career resilience in the path of predicting Career Preparation Behavior. The relevance of the current findings in terms of establishing appropriate intervention strategies for career counseling clients was discussed and the limitations of the current study and suggestions for future studies are also included.