At the present stage of development, various cultures, economies, language systems and societies in general are in close interaction with each other. The processes of borrowing and assimilation of loan words in the language are becoming the most significant ones in the linguistic development of modern society. They bring to the fore the problem of the justified borrowings, which seems to be one of the most relevant for linguists. This article attempts to answer the question if the borrowing of the term «resilience» by the economic terminological system of the Russian language is justified. The issue of possible unification of the «resilience» concept and development of its clear structure is debatable in the Russian-speaking academic community and is of interest to both linguists and economists. The identification of the content constituents of this economic concept and its description for further unification of the economic conceptual apparatus can contribute to reflecting the multidimensional nature of that linguistic fragment of the world in which this concept is presented. The research methodology is a set of methods used in linguistic research, namely content analysis, analysis of dictionary definitions and articles of etymological dictionaries, frame modeling of a scientific concept, comparative analysis, and analysis of the phenomenon under study in synchrony and in diachronic timelines. The empirical material of this study was a corpus of 32 texts in English and 35 texts by Russian-speaking authors. The corpus is concentrated on economic topics, and mainly consists of academic papers. The results of the complex analysis demonstrate minor differences in the composition of the slots in the frames under study in English and Russian economic term systems. Possible translations of the scientific concept are considered. The choice of sound and graphic representation of the term in the Russian language is justified. The conclusion is made about the relevant borrowing of the term «resilience».