Background: Flooding is recognizing as a risk element that effect many difficulties to children and could impact to their academic performance. In order to buffer such risk condition, some abilities are required to overcome that situation. One of abilities is resilience. The main purpose of this study was to investigate predictor of internal factors (age, illness, gender, emotion, behaviour, spirituality and physical activity) in resilience of elementary school-aged children who exposed the major flood in Serang, Indonesia. The framework used in this study was Resilience Model proposed by Karol Kumpfer.Methods: A cross-sectional correlation design was employed to accomplishing the study. The total final samples were 162 children who were 9-12 years and who were studied in 3rd to 6th years. All of them are those who were exposed to major flood in Undar Andir, Serang, Indonesia in 2013. The instruments used were self-report questionnaires. The Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale- 10, The Daily Spiritual Experience Scale, The Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire and The Physical Activity Questionnaire were utilized in this study after the validity and reliability test. Pearson’s correlation, point biserial and multiple regressions were employed for analysing data.Results: The results showed that there were significant correlated between behaviour (r = 0.157, p <0.05), spirituality (r = 0.261, p<0.01), physical activity (r = 0.185, p<0.05), and resilience of children. However, age, illness, gender, and emotion were not significantly correlated with resilience. In multiple regressions, spirituality showed as a predictor of resilience (Beta = 0.213, p <0.05) in children after exposing the flood.Conclusions: In conclusions, flooding is considered as a risk for children. In order to prevent the potential problems due to flood, children need protective factor. This study discovered that high spirituality increases resilience of children. Therefore, spirituality is well thought-out as an internal protective factor of resilience. This study suggested the developing of nursing intervention with religion-activities.