Objectives: The current study aimed to examine the relationships between resilience and personal characteristics such as socio-economic status, employment, satisfaction with life, and anxiety, during the period of returning to routine life after mass vaccination for COVID-19. Method: 993 Israeli participants, 52% female and 48% male, with a mean age of 40 years (18 to 89 years old) responded to an online questionnaire during March 2021. We hypothesized that (1) unemployed individuals and those with a low SES would have lower resilience, lower satisfaction with life and higher anxiety, (2) individuals who were ill with COVID-19 would have lower resilience and satisfaction with life and a higher level of anxiety, and (3) a higher resilience would be related to a lower level of anxiety. Results: The findings showed that unemployed individuals had lower levels of resilience and satisfaction with life and higher levels of anxiety than employed individuals. Specifically, those who experience a large gap between their socio-economic and employment statuses are at a greater risk than others. In addition, differences were found between people who had experienced COVID-19 illness and those who had not, but only with their satisfaction with life. People who had been ill were more satisfied than those who had not been ill. Eventually, as expected, a higher resilience was related to a lower level of anxiety, specifically at the lower levels of resilience. Conclusions: The findings of this study can provide additional perspectives on the day after a crisis (COVID-19) and the need for the development of intervention programs to strengthen the resilience of individuals who experience a gap between their SES and employment statuses when returning to their routine life after a crisis. The study also shed light on the unique correlation between anxiety and resilience, implying that following a crisis, high-resilience individuals face their anxiety better than low-resilience individuals.