Introduction. As family caregiving for the elderly was reaching its limit due to the continuing increase in the elderly population, day care can be said to be an intermediate stage between home care and facility care, and a system that responds well to Korea's welfare policy for the elderly, which advocates aging in place and integrated community care. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to understand the moderating effect of resilience on the effects of the caregiving burden of primary caregivers of elderly people who use day care centers on depression. Study participants and methods. The participants in this study were 304 primary caregiver of elderly people who use a day care center. 76.0% of the 304 were woman, 57.9% were middle-aged people aged 50 to 64, 41.8% of them were high school graduates. Frequency analysis, t-test, and one-way ANOVA were performed using SPSS Win 24.0, and moderating effect analysis was performed using SPSS PROCESS MACRO 3.5.4 version (Model 1). Results. The higher the independent variable, i.e., the higher the caregiving burden, the higher the depression (Coefficient=.374, p=.000), and the higher the resilience, the lower the depression (Coefficient=-.174, p=.000). The effect value of the interaction term of the dependency burden and resilience was significant as -.270 (p=.001). The F value of the model was significant as 33.667 (p=.000), and the explanatory power was 25.1%. Also as interaction terms are added. The amount of change in R2 was significant as .031 (p=.001), and the moderating effect of resilience was verified Practical significance. It was revealed that self-esteem and basic job skills are important to improve the job-search skills of middle-aged adults. Therefore, in order to support customized career design at the national level, it is suggested that vocational education programs should include not only certification courses, but also content for improving basic vocational competency and counseling for improving self-esteem.