 TPS9081  Background: Although small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is often sensitive to established first-line therapies, many patients relapse and develop drug resistance, and second-line therapies are limited. RESILIENT (NCT03088813) is a two-part phase 2/3 study assessing the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of liposomal irinotecan monotherapy in patients with SCLC who progressed with platinum-based first-line therapy. Preliminary data from the dose-ranging part of the study (part 1) showed that liposomal irinotecan 70 mg/m2 administered every 2 weeks was well tolerated and had promising antitumor activity (Paz-Ares et al. ASCO 2019; poster 318). Here, we present the design of the second, larger part of the study, which will evaluate the efficacy and safety of liposomal irinotecan versus topotecan in the same patient population. Methods: Part 2 of RESILIENT is a phase 3, open-label study with a planned sample size of 450. Patients are randomly allocated 1:1 to intravenous liposomal irinotecan or intravenous topotecan. Liposomal irinotecan is administered every 2 weeks at 70 mg/m2 (free-base equivalent) and topotecan is administered for 5 consecutive days every 3 weeks at 1.5 mg/m2. As of January 2020, 80 patients have been enrolled in part 2 of the trial. Tumor assessments are performed using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 and the Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology criteria for CNS lesions; symptom improvement is measured using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30. Safety assessments include monitoring for adverse events. The primary endpoint is overall survival (OS) and secondary endpoints are progression-free survival (PFS), objective response rate, and proportion of patients reporting symptom improvement. Patients will continue study treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or study withdrawal and will then be followed for survival until death or study end (when all patients have died, withdrawn consent or are lost to follow-up). Clinical trial information: NCT03088813. 