Introduction:The National Strategy for Disaster Resilience (NSDR) characterizes resilient communities as having strong disaster and financial mitigation strategies, strong social capacity, networks, and self-reliance. Nonprofit organizations (NPOs) embrace many characteristics of a disaster resilient community. NPOs do not operate for the profit of individual members. Community groups like Lions and Rotary Club have long histories, and while not established to respond to disasters, they frequently have heavy involvement in preparing for or recovering from, disasters.Aim:The study aims to address the question, “What is the potential role of nonprofit organizations in building community resilience to disasters?”Methods:An applied research project was carried out, using theories of resilience, social capital, and the Sendai framework to conceptualize the frameworks and guide the process. Qualitative research methods, thematic analysis, and case studies helped identify Lions, Rotary, and Neighbourhood Houses Victoria strengths, barriers, and enablers.Results:Research demonstrated how NPOs made significant contributions to building communities’ resilience to disasters. NPOs facilitate three Sendai guiding principles of engaging, empowering, and enabling the community to build disaster resilience. Actions included raising awareness to disaster risk, reducing disaster risk, helping prepare for disasters, and contributing to long term disaster recovery. NPO strengths included local knowledge, community trust, and connections, which matched characteristics listed in the NSDR for a disaster resilient community. However, barriers to participation included traditional emergency services ignoring NPOs, lack of role definition, and lack of perceived legitimacy.Discussion:As the first Australia research to scientifically analyze the contributions of these NPOs to build community resilience, before, during and after disaster, this study enhances understanding and recognition of NPOs and assists in identifying means to facilitate their disaster resilience activities and place them more effectively within Emergency Management strategic processes. Greater utilization of such assets could lead to better community outcomes.