The article presents the results of theoretical and empirical analyses of the interconnection between the resilience level and professional success of HR specialists. The specifics of the psychological phenomenon of resilience, its classifications and factors of influence are studied. The concept of professional success is analyzed and its components are determined.The study was conducted by using the method of “Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale” (CD-RISC), “SACS Questionnaire (S. Hobfoll)”, and “Scale of Protective Factors” method. The following attributes were measured: interconnection between the level of resilience and professional success of HR specialists, protective factors that contribute to increasing the resilience level, leading models of coping behavior of specialists, and the index of constructiveness.During the empirical research, respondents were classified by grade groups, according to the level of position in the company, which indicates the level of specialists’ success: Director/Head of Section, Team Leader, Senior, Middle, Junior. Methodological tools for studying the level of resilience of HR specialists were developed. The results of the research show that there is a connection between the level of resilience and professional success identified among the respondents of managing positions. The grade group with the highest results score of resilience level belongs to Team Leaders, while the representatives of Director/Head of Section group hold second position. Regarding the factors that protect against stress and help to increase the resilience level of grade groups members, we considered social and cognitive factors. Director/Head of Section and Team Leader groups receive resources from the social environment and strong relationships with friends and family, while the Middle group prefers the cognitive factor, and the Junior and Senior groups rely almost equally on both factors. All groups preferred the prosocial model of the coping strategy. According to the results of empirical research, we found out that the level of resilience has a greater impact on the professional success of a specialist than the age, previous experience, and duration of work in the company.