Background: A well-known distal risk factor for mental health symptomology is childhood maltreatment. Previous research revealed that several mediators, such as coping style and resilience, might be connected to the psychological mechanism of childhood maltreatment on mental health symptomology. Objective: The purpose of this study was to assess how coping style and resilience affect the relationship between childhood maltreatment and mental health symptomology of college students. Methods: With the method of cross-sectional survey, 740 college students from China (Gansu Province) completed the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire (CTQ), the Simplified Coping Style Questionnaire (SCSQ), the Connor–Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC), and the Symptom Checklist 90 (SCL-90). Structural equation modeling (SEM) was used to reveal the link between childhood maltreatment, coping style, resilience, and mental health symptomology. Results: The results showe that childhood maltreatment was significantly positively correlated with mental health symptomology and significantly negatively correlated with coping style and resilience. Coping style was significantly negatively correlated with mental health symptomology and significantly positively correlated with resilience. Resilience was significantly negatively correlated with mental health symptomology. Coping style and resilience played a partially mediating role in the relationship between childhood maltreatment and college students’ mental health symptomology. Through a chain of intermediary effects on coping style and resilience, childhood maltreatment not only had a direct impact on mental health symptomology but also had an indirect impact. Conclusion: Childhood maltreatment could affect college students’ mental health symptomology through the chain mediating effect of coping style and resilience. Therefore, it is an effective way to reduce the influence of childhood maltreatment on mental health symptomology through some intervention measures to cultivate positive coping style and improve resilience.