Abstract
White-nose syndrome (WNS) is a disease that has killed millions of bats in eastern North America and has steadily been spreading across the continent. Little brown myotis Myotis lucifugus populations have experienced extensive declines; however, some localized populations have remained resilient, with bats surviving multiple years past initial WNS exposure. These persistent populations may be critical to species recovery, and understanding mechanisms leading to this long-term survival and persistence may provide insight into overall bat and disease management. We monitored a maternity colony of little brown myotis on Fort Drum Military Installation in northern New York between 2006 and 2017 to determine basic demographic parameters and find evidence of what may be leading to resiliency and persistence at this site. Total colony size declined by approximately 88% from 2008 to 2010 due primarily to impacts of WNS. Counts of all adults returning to the colony stabilized during 2010–2014 (mean = 94, range 84–101) and increased after 2014 (mean = 132, range = 108–166). We captured 727 little brown myotis (575 females, 152 males) and banded 534 individuals (389 females, 145 males) at the colony. The majority of sampled bats showed evidence of recent past WNS infection and exposure to Pseudogymnoascus destructans, and we documented pervasive presence and limited viability of the fungus within the colony's main roosting structure. We recaptured 98 individually marked females in years after initial banding, and some individuals survived at least 6 y. Ninety-one percent of all adult females, 93% of recaptured bats, and 90% of 1-y-old females (i.e., bats recaptured the first year after initial capture as juveniles) showed evidence of reproduction during the monitoring period. Using mark–recapture models, we estimated annual survival rates of juvenile and adult little brown myotis during 2009–2016 and examined whether reproductive condition or evidence of recent infection of WNS had any effect on survival. Annual survival rates were similar between juveniles and adults, but highly variable, ranging from 41.0 to 86.5%. Models indicated that neither evidence of recent past exposure to WNS nor reproductive status were related to survival. No one parameter stood out as being responsible for this colony's continued existence, and it is likely that many interwoven factors were responsible for the observed resilience. Although relatively high reproductive effort from all females (i.e., both1-y-old and &gt;1-y-old ) and intermittently suitable survival rates have led to the continued persistence of, and population increases in, this summer colony, mortality from WNS and inherently low reproductive potential still seemed to be limiting population growth. Until there is a better understanding of this overall potential resiliency in little brown myotis, we recommend considering minimizing disturbance and direct human involvement within these persisting populations to allow whatever natural recovery that may be occurring to evolve uninterrupted.