Farming remains as a risky profession in drought prone areas as a result of many climate change issues affecting the lives and livelihoods of many farm families. The periodical and sudden occurrence of natural vagaries in the past few years has become a new normal, resulting in the farming communities suffering huge productivity losses in farming and allied sectors. Over a period of time with their resultant farming experience over years, the farming community has diversified their farm related production activities. No longer are they entirely dependent on farming for their livelihood needs but derive more economic and nutritional gains from allied sectors. On the other hand, they also adopt modern and indigenous climate resilient farm technologies to mitigate climate change issues as a part oftheir farming activities. However, over a period of time they need to be trained on many climate resilient farm technologies to improve their farm yields, reduce losses and achieve sustainable farm production. Keeping this in view, a study was undertaken in Erumapatty block to study the training needs of farmers on climate resilient farm technologies for improving the livelihood and nutritional security of farming community in Namakkal district of Tamil Nadu. About 120 farm respondents were selected for the study where National Initiative on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) scheme was launched in different modules. Training needs related to capacity building and blending of local resources, creation of water harvesting structures and new irrigation management practices for taking up mitigation measures was assessed as a part of the study. This identified training needs coupled with developing a new extension model for addressing climate change issues in Namakkal district as a part of the study is sure to address many climate change related issues affecting farmers. It will also assist in improving the livelihood and nutritional security of farming community in the near future.