The article is devoted to the study of the phenomenon of sustainability as a component of the development of urban ecosystems. In today's conditions of globalization and hyper-urbanization, ensuring sustainable development and sustainability of the territories of settlements and urban planning systems is becoming particularly relevant, in particular in Ukraine. The priority tasks in the field of urban planning and territorial planning in accordance with the goals of sustainable development for the period 2016-2030 are to ensure the safety, viability and ecological stability of cities and settlements. The main attention is paid to the search for optimal and effective ways of development and functioning of urboecosystems, as a complex problem: natural, social, man-made, security, regulatory and organizational.
Taking into account the fact that any settlement or settlement system should be considered as a complex ecosystem consisting, first of all, of natural and anthropogenic subsystems, or as a complete living organism, then, in our opinion, such a concept as «resilience» of urban ecosystems.
The purpose of the article is to substantiate the phenomenon of sustainability of urban ecosystems, as well as the search for effective and modern ways to improve and optimize the environment or increase the sustainability of urban planning systems.
Our task is to consider the phenomenon of sustainability at the level of the urban ecosystem.
The relevance of the research is due primarily to the fact that today there is a very urgent need to find optimal and effective ways of development and functioning of urban ecosystems, as a complex problem: man-made, natural, social, security, regulatory and organizational. Achieving safety and sustainable development of cities is a multifaceted concept that involves a safe environment, quality communications and services, affordable housing, convenient urban planning and management, inclusiveness and barrier-freeness.
The sustainability of urboecosystems should be understood as spatially, socially, economically and ecologically balanced changes of the social-territorial system of the city, aimed at the maximally complete realization of all components of its development potential and prevention of possible trends in the deterioration of the quality of life of the population. The need for in-depth research in the theoretical and methodological aspect of the interpretation of the concepts of "sustainable development" and "sustainability" as a phenomenon of globalization anthropogenic processes in the development of urboecosystems remains very acute and relevant.