Abstract
Background
The transitional period from hospital to home is vital for stroke patients, but it poses serious challenges. Good self-management ability can optimize disease outcomes. However, stroke patients in China have a low level of self-management ability during the transitional period, and a lack of effective support may be the reason. With the rapid development of technology, using wearable monitors to achieve real-time and individualized support may be the key to solving this problem. This study uses a randomized controlled trial design to assess the efficacy of using wearable technology to realize real-time and individualized self-management support in stroke patients’ self-management behavior during the transitional period following discharge from hospital.

Methods
This parallel-group randomized controlled trial will be conducted in two hospitals and patients’ homes. A total of 183 adult stroke patients will be enrolled in the study and randomly assigned to three groups in a 1:1:1 ratio. The smartwatch intervention group (n = 61) will receive Real-time and Individualized Self-management Support (RISS) program + routine care, the wristband group (n = 61) will wear a fitness tracker (self-monitoring) + routine care, and the control group (n = 61) will receive routine stroke care. The intervention will last for 6 months. The primary outcomes are neurological function status, self-management behavior, quality of life, biochemical indicators, recurrence rate, and unplanned readmission rate. Secondary outcomes are resilience, patient activation, psychological status, and caregiver assessments. The analysis is intention-to-treat. The intervention effect will be evaluated at baseline (T0), 2 months after discharge (T1), 3 months after discharge (T2), and 6 months after discharge (T3).

Discussion
The cloud platform designed in this study not only has the function of real-time recording but also can push timely solutions when patients have abnormal conditions, as well as early warnings or alarms. This study could also potentially help patients develop good self-management habits through resilience theory, wearable devices, and individualized problem–solution library of self-management which can lay the foundation for long-term maintenance and continuous improvement of good self-management behavior in the future.

Trial registration
The ethics approval has been granted by the Ethics Committee of West China Hospital, Sichuan University (2022–941). All patients will be informed of the study details and sign a written informed consent form before enrollment. The research results will be reported in conferences and peer-reviewed publications. The trial registration number is ChiCTR2300070384. Registered on 11 April 2023.
