Objectives  The purpose of this study is to verify the moderating effect of family resilience in the relationship between care stress and quality of life of mothers of children with developmental disabilities.
Methods  For this study, the survey was conducted on 220 mothers of children with developmental disabilities who use treatment centers for people with developmental disabilities and childcare centers for disabilities located in Busan, Daegu, Geoje, and Yangsan from March 28 to April 13, 2023. Among them, 198 copies of the effective questionnaire were used for the final statistical analysis. For the collected data, descriptive statistics by variable, reliability analysis, and correlation analysis were conducted using SPSS 22.0 statistical program, and the moderating effect was verified using Process Macro for SPSS V4.1 Model 1.
Results  First, as a result of examining levels according to sociodemographic characteristics of mothers and children with developmental disabilities, the higher the level of education, the higher the quality of life and the level of family resilience. In addition, the higher the income, the higher the quality of life and the level of family resilience, and the more severe the child's disability, the higher the level of care stress. Second, the average of care stress for mothers of children with developmental disabilities was 3.32, the average of quality of life was 3.01, and the average of family resilience was 3.43. Third, there was a negative correlation between care stress, quality of life, and family resilience of mothers of children with developmental disabilities, and a positive correlation between quality of life and family resilience. Fourth, the moderating effect of family resilience was found in the relationship between care stress and quality of life.
Conclusions  This study is meaningful in that it can be used as useful basic data for counseling to improve the quality of life of mothers caring for children with developmental disabilities by identifying the relationship between care stress and quality of life of mothers of children with developmental disabilities. In addition, it is meaningful that it is possible to provide a foundation for developing and utilizing family counseling and educational programs by enabling a counseling approach to the family of mothers of children with developmental disabilities using the family elasticity adjustment effect.