Vegetation changes were studied for 21 yr in two clearcut logged and slash—burned Pseudotsuga forests in the western Cascade Range of Oregon. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) was used to examine the successional relationships among six understory communities exposed to a gradient of disturbance intensity. Euclidean disturbances between pre— and postdisturbance samples in ordination space were used to compare community resistance to disturbance and long—term recovery, or resilience. Ordination through time for plant communities revealed a common pattern of rapid floristic change away from predisturbance composition, followed by gradual, unidirectional return. Early, but transient, convergence of successional pathways was common among mesic— and dry—site communities, reflecting the broad distribution of colonizers and the floristic similarity of predisturbance understories. Distinct sequences were observed on moist sites, reflecting more unique residual and colonizing floras. Ordinations also revealed increasing compositional change with disturbance intensity. Successional sequences were dominated by residual species on relatively undisturbed sites and by alternate suites of invading species on moderately disturbed and burned sites. Variation in the response gradient between watersheds reflected the modifying influence of local environment, stand history, and change in succession. Resistance and resilience varied little among plant communities but were generally lowest for the depauperate Coptis community and greatest for the compositionally and structurally diverse Polystichum and Rhododendrom—Gaultheria types. Both measures were strongly influenced by disturbance intensity. The stability of Pseudotsuga understories derives from the moderate tolerance of initial understory dominants to burning and in their ability to subsequently perennate from subterranean structures. Variation in the long—term response of communities reflects complex interactions between species life history, disturbance intensity, and chance, suggesting that both deterministic and stochastic factors must be considered in evaluating community stability and response to disturbance.