Abstract
As global climate change intensifies, extreme catastrophic weather. As a result, the vulnerability of power infrastructure gradually worsens, leading to an increased threat of power supply disruption. In order to cope with the threat of possible power supply disruption and to accommodate more residents in the event of a disaster, backup power generation and storage facilities are necessary should establish in residential and commercial areas. This study establishes a software analysis model of power demand resilience in the residential area, analyzes various power demand resilience scenarios, and discusses the operation of reasonable backup power generation and energy storage facilities, and power load management and control strategies. In the future, these software tools will be used to analyze the rational allocation and operation strategies of disaster prevention at power facilities in similar situations. This study takes the Fengshan Smart Green Community as the reference field, and extends the simulated facilities as the area of power demand resilience analysis, in an integrated residential area and a commercial area. This study has completed four case studies, including: (1) baseline scenario, (2) “use of diesel generators” scenario, (3) “expanding lithium battery capacity” scenario, and (4) “expanding lithium battery capacity and controlling lithium battery power output in the integrated residential area” scenario. The conclusions of this study include: (1) To cope with the intensified global climate change, adequate deployment of various backup power generation and storage facilities to enhance power resilience can effectively mitigate the threat of power supply disruption. (2) According to the case study results, there is sufficient solar photovoltaic in the residential area of Fengshan Smart Green Community. However, the energy storage and power supply capacity of lithium batteries are insufficient, and it is challenging to perform the backup power function. (3) To supply electricity to the power management system and the medical and shelter area adequately, this study suggests Fengshan Smart Green Community strengthens the power storage and power supply capacity of lithium batteries. (4) Solar photovoltaics are zero-carbon power; it can be a priority backup for power demand resilience. However, solar power is not available when there is insufficient sunshine. (5) The use of a diesel generator can flexibly assist the solar photovoltaic and lithium batteries to ensure the adequate power supply. (6) The use of diesel generators for power generation during a time of crisis is not pollution-free. However, their use for management in a crisis or disaster situation is in order when other power supply backups are insufficient or have failed. The critical findings include: (1) Solar photovoltaics are zero-carbon power; it can be a priority backup for power demand resilience. However, solar power is not available when there is insufficient sunshine. (2) The use of diesel generators for power generation during a time of crisis is not pollution-free. However, their use for management in a crisis or disaster situation is in order when other power supply backups are insufficient or have failed.