AbstractAimsThis study aimed to conduct a short‐ and long‐term Compassion Fatigue Resiliency Program and compare its impact on nurses’ professional quality of life, perceived stress, and resilience.DesignThe research was conducted between January 2017 January 2019 as a randomized controlled trial.MethodsThe sample comprised 125 oncology–haematology nurses randomly assigned to a Experimental I, Experimental II, or control group. The Compassion Fatigue Resiliency Program was conducted with the nurses as an intervention. Experimental I received a short‐term program (5 hr per day for 2 days, 10 hr in total) while Experimental II received a long‐term one (5 weeks, 2 hr per week, 10 hr in total). Measurements were obtained during pre‐ and post‐test and at 3‐, 6‐, and 12‐month follow‐ups. Research hypotheses were analysed using multilevel models.ResultsThe results of multilevel model analyses showed there was no statistically significant difference between mean scores for compassion fatigue, burnout, perceived stress, and resilience of nurses in the short‐ or long‐term groups or of those in the control group. Mean compassion satisfaction scores of nurses in the short‐ or long‐term groups were significantly higher than those in the control group. Mean compassion satisfaction scores of nurses in the short‐ or long‐term groups were significantly higher than the control group's pre‐test mean after 6 and 12 months.ConclusionThis study concluded that short‐ or long‐term programs had no influence on compassion fatigue, burnout, perceived stress, and resilience; however, both programs positively affected compassion satisfaction. We recommend that further studies be conducted, which will help determine the effectiveness of new programs.ImpactCaring for patients with cancer can generate work‐related stress that can negatively affect oncology nurses’ physical and emotional health, which could lead to compassion fatigue. The program provided nurses with an opportunity to improve their compassion satisfaction. Because there was no difference between both programs regarding mean compassion satisfaction scores, a short‐term program may be preferred to encourage more participation among nurses. We also recommend further studies should be conducted that include environmental improvements along with the training programs.Trial registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (The name of the trial register: Effect of a Compassion Fatigue Resiliency Program; the clinical trial registration number: NCT04372303).