AbstractManaging ecological systems for resilience can increase their capacity to maintain key functions even under global change. Oxygenated coldwater (oxythermal) habitat in lakes is an important ecological resource that is threatened by both climate change and eutrophication. Here, we quantify the resilience of oxythermal habitat in over 10,000 glacial lakes in the upper Midwestern United States to climate change and watershed disturbance and classify lakes for conservation prioritization based on their current conditions and resilience. Oxythermal habitat was predicted by lake morphometry, July air temperatures, and watershed land use. Temperatures are projected to increase by mid‐century, and the magnitude of warming, its effect on oxythermal habitat, and the uncertainty surrounding that effect varied among lakes. Under mid‐century climate conditions, the number of lakes containing suitable coldwater habitat was predicted to decline by 67%, while the number of lakes with unsuitable habitat was predicted to increase by over 200%. Lakes varied in the amount of temperature increase that they could sustain without a resultant change in habitat tier (i.e., their climate resilience). Median climate resilience was 4.3°C, with some lakes capable of remaining in their habitat tier even with temperature increases up to 14°C. Changing watershed land use was predicted to influence oxythermal habitat in 24% of lakes (n = 2391). We used the magnitude of increase in watershed development that a lake could sustain while remaining in its current habitat class as a measure of its resilience to watershed disturbance. Conversely, decreased watershed development may improve oxythermal habitat conditions and push a lake into an improved condition, and this value represented a lake's restoration potential. We classified lakes into seven management classes based on their current oxythermal habitat conditions and the resilience of oxythermal habitat to climate and watershed disturbance. To facilitate management on individual lakes, we also assessed the vulnerability and resilience of individual lakes and the uncertainty surrounding these estimates. By quantifying the resilience of lakes and how it is influenced by local action across a multistate region, we can prioritize conservation action across multiple scales to maintain the critical habitat and ecosystem function of glacial lakes.