Objective. This study aimed to compare the attitudes and preferences on cancer diagnosis disclosure (CDD) among suspicious lung cancer patients (SLCPs), lung cancer patients (LCPs), and their family members and to explore their associations with resilience. Methods. A cross-sectional study was conducted at Yunnan Cancer Hospital in China, from March to August 2022. A total of 1016 participants including 254 SLCP-family pairs and 254 LCP-family pairs completed self-administered questionnaires to assess their attitudes toward CDD and resilience. Continuous variables were expressed by means and standard deviations, while categorical variables were presented by numbers and percentages. The comparisons between groups were tested by using a t-test or chi-squared test. Associations between resilience and CDD attitudes in the four groups were estimated by multivariate logistic regression models. Results. Compared with LCPs, more SLCPs believed that patients should be informed of their cancer diagnoses (63.8% vs 43.7%, p<0.001), and the distribution of the first one to know the diagnosis was disequilibrium (p<0.05). The significant difference was identified in participants’ attitudes toward patients being told the facts by resilience levels among the different groups. Subsequent multivariate logistic regression analyses showed that resilience was associated with participants’ preference for patients being informed of their cancer diagnoses in the SLCPs group (adjusted OR: 1.87, 95% CI: 1.08–3.25), LCPs group (adjusted OR: 2.21, 95% CI: 1.32–3.74), and family of LCPs group (adjusted OR: 1.79, 95% CI: 1.04–3.12). We further performed a sensitivity analysis using quantiles of resilience. Conclusion. SLCPs and LCPs exhibited different attitudes towards CDD. Resilience plays a positive role in CDD. Our study suggests that healthcare practitioners should consider patients’ diagnosis state when disclosing a cancer diagnosis and tailor their disclosure methods based on the patients’ and families’ preferences and resilience. Our findings provide important implications to guide future research and intervention programs to improve cancer diagnosis disclosure for SLCPs, LCPs, and their families.