 e23017  Background: The 2021-2022 Association of Community Cancer Centers (ACCC) President’s Theme centered on strengthening a work culture that supports professional well-being and workforce resilience. To support this theme and help ensure sustainable high quality cancer care delivery, ACCC —an education and advocacy organization for the multidisciplinary oncology care team (MDT)—designed a multifaceted professional development initiative. Educational interventions were designed to address team member burnout and building resilience, critical issues facing members of today’s oncology workforce. Methods: ACCC designed a collaborative and bi-directional peer-support educational initiative to drive the mission of the 2021-2022 ACCC President’s Theme. Professional Development opportunities included: 1) Expert-led mindfulness meditation series of 10 guided exercises tailored to help MDT members manage through social, emotional, physical, and mental health challenges. 2) Professional development themed virtual meetings, styled as “Coffee Chat Learning Sessions,” facilitated by the ACCC President, addressing emergent challenges and opportunities facing MDT members. 3) Podcast series featuring timely topics related to MDT well-being and resiliency amid the COVID-19 Pandemic. Podcast topics include a) The Business Case for Hiring Oncology Social Workers. b) Leading with Gratitude. c) Coping with Pandemic Grief. d) A Summer of Disconnect for Cancer Professionals. e) COVID-19 Self-Care. f) Real-World Lessons from COVID-19. Results: The education initiative reached a diverse cohort of oncology care community members. 76 unique professionals participated in the small group “Coffee Chat Learning Sessions” from 25 states and represented 72 unique cancer care programs, practices, and institutions. The meditation series engaged more than 1,100 users and the podcast series garnered 1,870 learners. The podcast episode titled “COVID-19 Self Care” was the third most accessed ACCC Podcast episode of all time with more than 680 views. Over 2,900 learners accessed and engaged with the ACCC President’s Theme resources across the dedicated webpage from March 2021-January 2022. Conclusions: Anecdotal learner feedback has been overwhelmingly positive regarding this professional development educational initiative. In a climate of high burnout and health care worker fatigue, the ACCC 2021-2022 President’s Theme Education program has served as a unique lifeline and resource to members of the oncology community to restore and develop resiliency, enhance well-being, and advance professional connections and peer-to-peer support to meet continued challenges. Lessons learned from these activities will guide and inform future professional development opportunities. 