AbstractClimate disruption and rapid urbanization present numerous challenges to infrastructure and communities in Chinese cities, from flooding and coastal erosion, to drought and pollution. This review article focuses on the utilization of Blue‐Green Infrastructure (BGI)—a suite of nature‐based strategies combining hydrological functions (blue) with vegetated landscaping (green)—to provide climate resilience and urban multifunctionality in China's large, high‐density cities. Chinese cities are utilizing BGI in new construction, in neighborhood retrofits, and in revival of ancient nature‐based infrastructure. The literature gives most attention to BGI in China's Sponge City Initiative that addresses the pluvial flooding crisis. Quantitative monitoring of BGI shows progress in stormwater‐related functions and to a lesser extent with rainwater utilization to address water scarcity. Other studies document multifunctional aspects of BGI, including cooling and energy‐saving functions of urban trees and green roofs, and green space expansion with parks that serve as retention basins. However, significant challenges and potential remain. China's urban infrastructure, including BGI, needs stronger design to be robust under extreme conditions as climate disruption intensifies. There is potential for BGI to more fully address habitat fragmentation, extreme heat, sea‐level rise and other climate and urbanization hazards. Further research and pilot projects are needed to characterize and quantify the benefits of multifunctional BGI. More integrated planning across city sectors, with greater incorporation of ecological and social functions, will help Chinese cities achieve multiple goals: providing carbon‐neutral and climate‐resilient infrastructure, improving air and water quality, regenerating ecosystems, and enhancing urban quality of life.This article is categorized under:
Energy and Urban Design > Climate and Environment
Energy and Climate > Systems and Infrastructure
Energy and Urban Design > Systems and Infrastructure
