Building resilient cities is playing an increasingly important role in enhancing urban safety and promoting sustainable urban development. However, few scholars pay attention to urban resilience in inland provinces. Choosing Henan Province, as it is a typical representative of China’s major inland economic provinces, has practical guiding significance. This study aims to provide a systematic indicator system and evaluation tool to measure the cuity’s resilience level. Therefore, based on a multidimensional perspective, this paper dissects the urban resilience spatial and temporal evolution characteristics of 18 Henan Province cities with the entropy method, Thiel index, and ESDA (Exploratory Spatial Data Analysis) and explores influencing factors with a spatial econometric model. The main results are as follows: (1) the overall resilience in Henan Province continuously grows, and the resilience level of the Zhengzhou metropolitan area is the highest. In the urban resilience subsystem, economic and social resilience notably drive urban resilience improvement in Henan Province. (2) The spatial difference of urban resilience has been significantly reduced, but the inner metropolitan area presents the characteristics of “core–periphery”. Urban resilience presents a positive spatial correlation, and local spatial agglomeration is relatively stable. (3) Under the state of spatial interaction, urbanization rate, administrative, innovation, market, and industrial structure factors all have significant direct effects and spatial spillover effects on overall resilience, but openness exerts downward pressure on local resilience. (4) On this basis, strategies have been proposed to continuously promote the development of new urbanization, improve the regional coordinated development mechanism, increase market activity, optimize the environment for scientific and educational innovation, and promote the optimization and upgrading of industrial structure. The approach taken in this research may also be useful for developing urban resilience assessment tools in other central plains cities as well as in other cities in the interior of the world with similar conditions.