The article examines the current issue of the psychological resource of the staff of penitentiary institutions, in particular the phenomenon of resilience as the need to resist stress and display mental stability manifested in professional activity. It is emphasized that the professional activity of the staff of penitentiary institutions contains traumatic work situations and is filled with stress factors. The extreme nature of their activities is substantiated, and the process of adaptation of penitentiary staff to extreme working conditions depends on the strength of stressors and stress resistance: the supply of important information and energy resources for overcoming stressful situations. The properties of stress resistance of individuals of an extreme type of profession are summarized: psychophysiological, emotional, cognitive, integrative. A brief overview of various approaches to the conceptualization and definition of the concept of resilience is presented - as a trait or ability of an individual; as a process and as an adaptive and protective mechanism of the individual. The components of resilience are given: 1) cognitive flexibility and reframing; 2) resourceful emotional states; 3) connection with values, spirituality, meaning of life; 4) effective coping strategies; 5) social competence. It was determined that the advantages of resilience are high adaptability, psychological well-being and success in activities. Attention is also paid to the theoretical and methodological model of resilience, which includes four phases: confrontation with risk factors (traumatic events); activation of protective factors and vulnerability factors; interaction between protective factors and vulnerability factors; possible outcomes: resilience, maladaptation. The understanding that resilience plays an important role in the ability and formation of post-traumatic growth of penitentiary staff is offered. It has been established that in order to achieve the level of integration of the staff of penitentiary institutions in the selected aspect of adaptation to professional activity, it is necessary to develop successful coping strategies by teaching self-regulation skills and improving the level of stress resistance associated with the level of job satisfaction.